<doctype type=text"">Architects, Engineer,s builders, Owners and others are invited to send particulars of all kinds of construction work in contemplation for publication  in department Please state location character and cost.

and names	person or persons controlling the work

	WIARTON, ONT.-A Town  Hall will be	built this year.



AURORA, ONT. -The Mechanics' Institute will be enlarged.

	COLUMBUS	ONT.- The Methodists will erect a new church,



BEAVERTON ONT.- The G. T. R. will build a new station house.

NORTH BAY, ONT.-Another new hotel is to be erected to cost $3,000.



WOODSTOCK,	ONT.- $2,000 will be spent be spent in High School extension.



MORETOWN, ONT.- A new Methodist church will ill probably be built here.

MOUNT ALBERT, ONT.- An Episcopal church will be erected

this summer	.



GEORGETOWN, ONT. — Four acres have been purchased as a site for a new I High School,

MILVERTON	ONT.- Mr. Peter Kock will erect a large brick block to cost about $6,000.



SHELBURNE  ONT. —The Methodists propose erecting a $5000 brick church the coming summer.



LISTOWEL	ONT.- The Grand Trunk Railway Co. are being urged to erect a new passenger station here.



ST. GEORGE.-Mr. R. C. John Dunn of St. John N. B.. is pre paring plans for a new school house at thus place

BERLIN ONT.—The congregation of St. Paul's Lutheran church will probably put up a new church this summer.

MOOSE JAW N. W. T.- The School Board are selecting a site for a new school house, which they expect to build this year.

I TORONTO.- The Separate School Board will erect a two-storey frame building in St. Marks Parish, the cost not to exceed $ ,000.

	BRACEBRIDGE ONT.—Mr,	preparing plans for a brick church to be erected by the Bracebridge Methodists to cost' about $4,000.

ST. STEPHEN N. B.- Messrs. Stewart & Co. manufacturers 01 candy etc., will erect a new building on the site of their recently destroyed works,

LINDSAY ONT,—A new post office and customs building will be erected this spring; also a 



new Collegiate Institute, and a large passenger station

GALT, ONT,—The Town Council has been requested to submit a by-law to the citizens authorizing the expenditure of $10, 000 for the erection of an hospital.

BRANTFORD ONT.—Among other buildings to be erected in Bran ford this summer arc the Courtland works and the new shops of Messrs. Harris Son & Co.

STRATFORD, ONT.—Mr. Fred W. White, Government Engineer has been inspecting the drill shied, and recommends about $15,000 worth of improvements in the building.

MITCHELL ONT,—Architect J. R. Kilburn of Stratford, Ont., is making plans for a palatial residence for Mayor . McClay, to he-erected the coming summer, It will cost $10,000 or upwards. 

LONDON, ONT.—The Salvation Army will erect a barracks and training school to cost upwards of $12, 000.—The School Board will ask the City Council for a grant of $18, 000 for school extension.

WINNIPEG Man.—The necessity of erecting a maternity hospital is being urged upon the Board of Directors of the Winnipeg General Hospital and it is probable the work will shortly be

	undertaken.	, 



CROSS HILL ONT..—The Presbyterians will build a new brick church. —The Township Council propose making alterations in their hall—The Episcopalians are going to make alterations in their church,

ST. THOMAS ONT.—Mr. John Noble has offered a lot to the Mayor as a site for a city hospital. provided the city accept the offer recently made by a wealthy citizen to donate $10,000 as an endowment fund.



ST. CATHARINES, ONT.- McCloy Bros. purpose erecting a new hair cloth factory on the site of the old paint mill.—The R. C. church will be extensively enlarged.—Captain Larkin's residence will be enlarged and improved.—An engine house for the Niagara Central railroad will be built, and also a station for the road on Welland Avenue, -

Kingston, ONT.—The contracts for the remodelling of the First Methodist Church have not been awarded. There is a difference of $700 in the figures of the tenders.- The congregation of

St. James Church, who had decided, to expend $8,000 in enlarging and beautifying their building, have abandoned the scheme, as it was found the improvements would cost between $9,500 and $10. 000, A committee has been appointed to solicit further subscriptions and there is a prospect of a new church being built' to cost between $12,000 and $15,000 - The Building Committee of St. Andrews church, recently destroyed by fire, expect to secure $10 000 from the insurance companies which,- with the $8,000 already

 promised, is sufficient to guarantee a church to cost $25,000 or $30,000. Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell architects, of Toronto

 have been consulted about the plans. 

 <article title=" PAINTING " author="Hovenden, R. J.">

 PAINTING.		-

R. J. HOVENDEN, of this city delivered a



 most interesting address on the above subject a fortnight ago before the members of the Architectural Draughtsmen's Association, of this city. A synopsis of his remarks is herewith presented

In house painting the priming or first coat of color is the foundation for the subsequent coats of color, and on the quality of' the materials used in this priming coat, depends in a great measure- the stability of' the Work when finished. All woodwork specified to be painted, after having been cleaned, dusted, etc., and the knots-killed by the usual application of' shellac knotting; should be primed with (what you invariable specify, but do not get in most cases) " best white lead" and " linseed oil." In this case, no matter what the shade of the finishing color may be, It is always desirable to use raw linseed oil, using either" patent dryer," " sugar-of-lead". or " litharge," as a dryer It will be found that the color dries hard, even if a little slow in the Winter time, and there is no danger of its cracking, honey-combing or peeling off, or, it used outside, blistering under the sun's rays. 

After the priming coat has become thoroughlo hard and dry all nail holes and imperfections in the woodwork are stopped and faced up, and this also should be done with a putty that will harden sufficiently to resist the action of the sand-paper and brush when rubbing 

down and painting, and not leave the nail boles looking as though they were only half stopped, which, unfortunately, is too, often the appearance presented when the work Is finished.

The second and third coats of color should be composed of the same class of materials as the first, with the addition of the requisite quantity of turpentine added to each coat. Wood finished in this manner will wear well, and Will not crack, honeycomb or blister, but remain as a monument to the credit of both architect and painter.

I have avoided recommending the use of boiled linseed oil in mixing color or brown Japan as a dryer from the fact that nineteen out of every twenty barrels of boiled oil is what is known in the trade as "bung hole" boiled oil, viz., so many gallons of raw oil is taken out of a barrel and a corresponding number of gallons of a cheap liquid dryer its put back in is stead ; the barrel -is then bunged up and rolled around, and, you have your boiled oil complete. The average brown japans are very little better as to quality, being made from a very small

quantity of cheap varnish gum and a very large quantity— of resin, (or North Carolina gum), with a little shellac. The use, therefore, of either, or both, in painting wood work inside or outside is somewhat dangerous, and when used the work is certain - to crack, honeycomb and blister. Of such work there are thousands-of specimens

to be met with in this city to-day.

-Another mode of- procedure-- to be avoided, is that of priming woodwork with a color composed of all the odds and ends of a paint shop. It is usually " fat," and will not dry hard, no matter what pains are taken to make it do so, and the result is, in all classes where used, cracks

 blisters, &c.		-	- - 

 

It is always well to give the stairway wall of the several stories a different decorative treatment; also to

introduce horizontal lines, as giving greater breadth and

—stability of appearance.	- 



SELECTION AND APPLICATION OF

WALL PAPER - 



T is to be assumed that most persons when selecting  a wall paper take into account the mode in which it will be affected by, and that which it will affect; colors of furniture, hangings, carpet and- paintings if these are to be introduced. Most praiseworthy efforts are made by our leading manufacturers who spend princely sums each year on patterns, to afford the widest possible range of choice. Nor do the pattern designers proceed arbitrarily. The tendency of taste and fashion in wall papers is as- closely watched as those of dress goods, upholstery coverings and carpets by manufacturers concerned in these lines in which a constant exchange of ideas is going on a textile pattern. for instance, often fructifying, in a modified form, on' a wall paper. The wallpaper pattern maker, though individually Inconspicuous1 has risen to high importance in the art world, contributing in attractive productions to intellectual pleasure and social enjoyment. The happiest diversion in favor of wall paper has been. the exchange of a narrow band at the junction of wall with ceiling for a deep frieze which allows for the play of inventive design, and the establishment of effective contrasts in form and color It occupies the same relation to the pattern of the main portion of a wall that a lambrequin holds to a' curtain, lessens monotony with enhancement of the general effect.

There is-one point in the selection of light-tinted wall papers not 40 be overlooked. These, when in place on a wall, assume an intenser hue than when submitted to the inspection of the purchaser, owing to the surface of one wall reflecting itself on another, particularly under artificial light. It is best to choose light papers on a. sunshiny day; with (lark colors this is not so important. but these in their turn are deepened in hue by reflection, The tints of light paper should always be sufficiently

pronounced- to- be— easily distinguished.-Gold where used in arabesque, scroll or floriated designs, should present itself, if part of the pattern on ground, only in fine lines or occasional splashes, for the -eye soon wearies of too much unrelieved brilliancy. Gold is best dispensed with in the wallpaper of dining rooms. where we look for warm rather than bright effects. 

-b._____________



Sugar-of-lead is a very satisfactory. dryer for, white color and varnish, Orange tints are useful in many cases for interior decoration, as they are warm and pleasant.

A suitable color for recesses holding marble statuary is cerulean blue; whilst one of the best backgrounds for gold and green bronze is Indian red. . 

Before proceeding minutely to. sketch a colored design determine the color and relative proportions to be admitted Remember that elaboration is not necessarily beauty.

Naples yellow, of Which the lightest hues are the best should not be worked with a steel palette knife, or mingled with ochres, prussian blue, -or other colors of. which Iron is the base, as these -darken it. Colors blended from lead or antimony suit it.

A varied tone, productive of an extremely good effect, may be given to a stencil pattern working the brush afterwards slightly over portions, and introducing delicate gradations of tints,, varying the manipulation throughout so as to prevent formal repetition. 

In viewing a facade of a house nothing is more pleasing than the sight of statuettes or of statuary groups at



the windows. These are occasionally introduced in marble composition, terra-cotta or bisque, but are not as frequently seen as they should be. Flowers and curtains may decorate a window, but statuary completes

-	- -

the decorations. -

A pretty, healthful and economical finish for ceilings

and walls is made of pulverized soapstone. It can be readily washed takes a high polish, is pearl-gray in tint, presents the best possible surface for painting, either in oil or water color, and will neither crack nor chip.

For the- aspect of friezes in bold relief and the various mouldings of-a-room, much depends- on the position of the jets of flame. If the light comes from wall brackets, the masses of the ornament are apt to be shown with chiaroscuro effects of light and shade rather than in

se details, and the same with table lights. Some -people are pleased with one some with the other effect, but in determining beforehand the position of lights in

room this should taken into account. The chandelier will afford an equable general diffusion of light, but this is not always desirable.



