<doctype type="colophon;text">PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN WE INTERESTS OF



 Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers in Building Materials and Appliances.

VOL 1.—No., v. , .	. .	TORONTO CANADA MAY,	.	PRICE 20 CENTS

				 $2.00 Per. YEAR.

	"	—THE—



Canadian Architect and Builder

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION METHODS

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS; BUILDERS. CONTRACTORS AND MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING-MATERIALS AND APPL1ANCES   



C.	If. MOTIMER Publisher,.

31 Kin

g Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA.

SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscnptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be contintued until instructions to discontinue are received and all

	arrearages are p aid.	-

In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office



isit a city and take in:



Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office



 ADVERTISEMENTS

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for

advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month and changes of advertisemenrs not - later Than the 5th

day of the month.

EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





F

ROM time to lime the daily newspapers report the case of some unfortunate workman who has been

buried alive_or fatally injured by the caving on of the drain or sewer in which he was working. The frequency of sbch accidents would seem to indicate that some con— tractors do not take the precautions that are necessary to protect workmen in their employ from' injury. City engineers and others whose duty it is to supervise the work of contractors, shoukisee to it that the latter are not allowed to shirk their duty lfl this important particular. 



 owner is not deeply interested in the health of his tenants, and goes no farther

in the direction of sanitary improvements than the law or self interest compels him. Canadian tenants should

take a leaf out of the book of the Chicago people, who are just now using the house owners' self-interest as a lever to k keep their buildings sanitary condition. A

in a 

Chicago journal that "the public is getting more sensitive to sewer air

every year, and to recognize its.

effects when it is not perceptable by its odor; and that

whole blocks of nice-looking residences stand empty in  some localities because when inhabited funerals were so numerous as to make them notorious." Canadian house owners who are seeking only to reap large profits from their investments, and have given no thought or care to the sanitary conditions of their premises, will do well to

	take warning.	____





 COMMUNITIES, like individuals, often fail to  appreciate their advantages until dispossessed of

them.._Through neglect on the: part 'of its official representative; the city of Toronto has forfeited

	-	control

of the Queen's-Park and Avenue. The property, unless. some new arrangement can be made, will revert to. the

	the	land for park

University. seeing that no _____ ___ purposes is obtainable near the centre of the city, it is very desirable that negociations should

 of the city with a view to obtaining-a new lease of the

property. Toronto is sadly deficient in the matter of

public parks and squares which conduce so greatly. to

outgrown or the tyrannical coriciuct of the unions, whose members are expected, and indeed compelled, to sacrifice

the

their individual opinions and	and follow   dictates of their leaders. If the unions hope to hold the

allegiance of men of independent minds, they will find it necessary to allow their niembers greater individual liberty ; and also they will need to recognize the justice

ot paying workmen in proportion to the amount and

----quality of the work they are able to perform.



SEVERAL contributors to this journal, have recently



pointed to-the necessity-for-a standard' qualification  which every person aspiring to, practice architecture should be required to measure up to. The  subject, is a timely one, involving not only the interests of architects, but of the public as well. We have wisely decided that no person should be allowed to carry on tfie business of a plumber without first having passed an examination showing' himself to be possessed of the necessary knowledge. He is even required to give, a bond for the proper performance of his duties. Does not as much responsibility rest upon the architect as the guardian of human health and life, as upon the plumber? If so, why should not the' one be required to prove his qualifications as well as' the other? The time is surely coming when architecture will be placed on equal footing with the other piofessions, when only those who have fitted themselves by a proper course of study will be allowed to practice it. The duly qualifitd architects' of the present day should 'unite as a body and seek to obtain the passing of the legislation necessary to place the profession upon the higher level where it properly belongs.'



A

 FEW'summers ago the Toronto City Cnuncil tried the experimeuit of planting flowers along the

boulevards in Queen's Pa:rk Avenue. The result' was

· most- scarcely a flower was to be seen. They were plucked by truel passers-by almost as soon' as their. petals opened? Many of the plants were torn up by the roots, aftd either carried away - or trampled under foot. The -Council naturally enough concluded that it was- useless to spend money in attempting to beautify the public thoroughfares and render the city attractive, so long as a portion of the population at least were so unappreclative as to wilfully destroy instead of seeking to protect -

and preserve what      designed to increase their





pleasure and happiness. -We-observe-- that- the City

 Councl, into whose hands has recently passed the management of the Horticultural Gardens, will again test

 -

tribunal before which any competitive plabs can be laid; stilt, in view of the unsatisfactory nature of all competilions, we cannot endorse_the scheme as heartily as we could desire The questions at stake in the planning

- and laying out of a system of sewerage are very weighty, and require a great deal -of thought. Few competitors

can afford the time and money to visit a city and take in all the points, on the mere- chance of gaining a prize, which will not compensate them for their time, unless they obtain the first prize. We have now several engineers of eminence in sanitary science in this pro

offer it to the City Council of Peterborough, and advise them' to seek out and employ a consulting engineer. Let him have the surveys made by some one conversant with the: needs of the city, inform him of any special points as to discharge of. sewerage and . areas to be specially  sewered at once, and leave him from his expedience to propound the most satisfactory system he can devise.





I

T. is probable that the eastern gap of the Toronto  harbor will be dredged to allow of th'e passage being

used by large vessels. If such' should be done, some -provision should be made which will allow of the erection of a swing bridge. We must have the means of reaching the Island by other ways than by the Island ferries. A street car line laid along the take edge of the Island, and connected with the street car service of this' city would meet the wants of a large number of our citizens. This line could be connected with-the east and west end of the King street lines, and a belt line of cars run, with which all the other lines in the city could

connect. Another 'belt line could be run by laying a line of



rails up Bathurst street to College street,-and running a line of cars a long this route ,to the Island by way of' Parliament street. A third belt line could be run byway of Bathurst street to Bloor street, along Bloor to. Sherbourne street and by Way of Howard street to Parliament street, and thence to the Island. With' these systems of street- car- lines in operation, ready access to the Island could be gained from all parts of the city. Arrangements could be made-to use these tracks for the'

- conveying of street sweepings and other refuse suitable for the purpose to the Island on cars or wagons. This, work should be done in 'the early morning or at night. By this n-r the Island could built up' by the addition of material which would be most valuable when placed thereon, but which - is of no value In the city. The distri  -bution of material on the Island would turn it into a fertile  garden, and make it possible to lay. out a beautiful park which would be the resort or our citizens' during 'the



 -

