<doctype type="text">community who believe that it is only right-to give local talent a fair opportunity to show. what it can do. That such opportunity tin has been given in the last few years no-one who knows flows the facts will affirm -The erection -of the Ontario Parliament Buildings was taken out of the hands of capable local talent, which was first placed in competition with firms from the United States, and given into the hands of the expert, who condemned plans of Canadians without just or sufficient reasons  canadian talent has succeeded competition with _ the local element in the United States ; why cannot it (10 the same at home? Is it that " prophet is not without honour save his own country?" We are afraid that it must be so. We hear a great deal said about building up a "national spirit." How is this to be done when it is impossible for young. -men of talent to receive the reward to which they are entitled in their native country ?

We would advise our architects to "put their best root forward," and show that they have the ability to- reach

-the-top-rung in the-ladder of fame at home as well as.. in a foreign country.



A model of the memorial statue to be erected at Port hope to the memory of the late Sol. Williams has been.' prepared by Mr. Hamilton McCarthy of this city, and has been approved of by a committee appointed by the Williams Memorial Association. The statue will be in bronze of heroic size, mounted on a grey granite pedestal twelve feet high It represents the Colonel with- upraised sword giving the word of command The London Free architects shotild turn their attention to designing houses in such a manner that the roofs could be utilzed for recreation resorts by the occupants.  Canada is a very large country, with a comparatively small population. There is as yet—nor is there likely to be for a century hence—no scarcity of fresh air or means of  recreation for all requirements Our contemporary could easily find some subject of more practical interest

 to discourse upon..		. 

<article title=" Flower-beds ON THE LAWN " author="">

Flower-beds ON THE LAWN;.

The house is not wanted to stand in a flower-garden n where everything else is sacrificed - for 

sake of a gorgeous display of gay colors. Besides, says the Building Budget a bed of choice flowers far more beautiful when standing well separated from other

MADISON AVENUE SEWER.

Editor canadian architect AND builder

 SIR.—I wish you could stir up the authorities who are responsible for the tardy progress of Madison Avenue sewer. Toronto. The tenders for the work have been let long' enough 'ago. and other streets that did not require sewers as badly have since then been accommodated. I am building there now. and would have built there a year ago as would many others it sewer & c. had been in I do not now suppose the block pavement -will be down for another year. . - - in— 

 - ROBURITE.

U

NDER the heading of Hydro Carbon Explosives.' the Midland Institute of Mining Engineers, in Great Britain have had presented to them valuable information and research into this new explosive. It is one of ihe group of explosives invented by Spreagel a German. who claims for it less light in explosion. and greater force than any of the other explosives Its composition is given thus: Roburite-chloro-dinitro-benzol-C6 113 C1 (No 2)2 in which 3 atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by 7 atom- of chlorine and 2 molecules' of nitric peroxide (No. 2.) It has

theoretically nine tImes the force of gunpowder but practically it---may be taken at 4-I compared with powder.

The research carried out by seveial members was with a view to ascertain how much flame-was developed during explosion a point

of the highest importance in underground and mining work, where -so much explosive matter is always present. In one series of experiments coal gas was passed into a receiver containing 72 cubic feet. and contained an explosive mixture of 8 per cent. o(gas to 92 of air. Roburite was fired in this apparatus several times without igniting the gas. With powder ,a violent explosion accornpanie4 by large quantities of flame occurred.. In a series of surface experiments. the most valuable was firing roburite in an old boiler shell. in which coal dust was kept in suspension by means of a fan. No ignition of the coal dust took place. In pit experi- -ments, like results were obtained, and in one special case, a 2 in. hole .~ ft. 6 in. deep, charged with - 105 grammes, a space of 2 feet

· was left between the charge and the tamping. A loud report was beard. the explosion was successful, no flame or spark could be perceived, nor was any inconvenience caused by the flames, even -instantly after the explosion. 'The most surprising experiments were perhaps those made by a member of the Institute who fired

·	loose roburite (z) in an atmosphere of z or.. of coal gas to 8 ox- air, a layer of gunpowder (a) under a layer of gunpowder and

	-	BUILDING CONTRACTS 

<article title=" BUILDING CONTRACTS " author="">

a GOOD deal of discussion is going on just new about forms of building contract The National Association of MasterBuilders' seems to have opened the discussion., a year ago or more by the appointment of a committee to consider the subject of drawing up a model building-contract to be officially adopted by the Association.- but the matter has occupied 'the attention - of various bodies of architects as, well as builders, and as the comfew architects to join in its deliberations the subject may fairly be 

said to be formally before the two profes'sions. For- our own part. we are inclined to think that the proper position for architects to maintain. - unless applied to for advice by the builders, is that of' critics, rather than proinotors of any particular form.- After - all, the contract is between the 'owner and builder, not between the -builder and the architect. It is the duty of architects to guard the interest of owners in contracts, so far as they cart fairly do so, and they should, both individually and collectively carefully, avoid the appearance of going out of their - way to invent forms of contract -which may be more acceptable to builders than those now in useIf the builders object to the current forms they are at liberty to say -

-	what changes they wish to have made. and if they unanimously resolve to insist upon any stipulation whatever, -the owners must

--	submit; and. the architects, if their powers of persuasion prove unavailing. have no further responsibility on that particular point So far as the architects' own comfort -is concerned, most of them would be glad to see an unchangeable form of contract adopted. -covering all c conceivable points. which would relieve them of the anxiety of drawing up contracts in their own way, but until the mallet has gone beyond discussion. - they - should, as a class, fee themselves to some extent, entrusted with the duty of defending the rights of owners in general. At the Last convention of the Association of Master Builders, certain rules were drawn up. and recommended to local societies for- adoption, which have already been printed at length in these columns; and the Canadian

—	builders have recently adopted a form of contract prepared for

-	them, and, it is said. will now refuse to sign any other. -, -

-~ In some respects the Canadian form is more favorable to the owner than the rules of the American Association. The Canadian contract, for example. provides as do most existing contracts on this side the line, that specifications and drawings shall be regarded as co-operating, so' that work - shown on one and not on the other shall be included as if mentioned in both, while the American rules provide that demands made by the plans; and not teferred to in the specification, shall not be considered in the estimate offered.

·	In our opinion the Canadian form is in this respect the only fair one. No architect in this' or any other country can describe a building completely either by specifications or plans alone. Bothsorts of documents' together are barely enough to enable the most careful architect to show all the items w'hich he wishes to include in the contract, as so long as both plans and specifications are -open to the builker to study in making his estimate, there is no more reason for his leaving out anything shown on one because it is not mentioned in the other than there would be for omitting the items on certain pages of - the specification. If the plans and

the Building Budget, a bed of choice flowers look far more beautiful when standing well separated from other similar objects, either near the border of the walk or on the well-trimmed lawn where a group of dark foliage as a background gives relief to the bright and gay colors.

·	Here they attract attention, while in the masses, the singles are lost. Too many flower-beds interfere with he effect of what is a more important feature on the

 limited surrounding of a suburban home, and that is the lawn, which should predominate. We introduce flowers not only for their- individual beauty and enjoyment) but also for picturesque effects in connection with the house, and an adjunct to the lawn scenery, and effect. Such arrangements beside producing great satisfaction to the occupants of a country home, add much to the cultivation of good taste; for few will pass by such a homestead without a pleasing reflection,- and perhaps a desire to.. imitate similar effects of their own grounds. At a small outlay of money we - can procure nursery what is needed for such purposes In fact, we can always find a dcsirable place for an evergreen or a shade tree near a dwelling



 TESTING FOR FOUNDATIONS.

<article title=" TESTING FOR FOUNDATIONS " author="">

1 In connection with the building for the Paris Exhibition a series  of experiments have recently been carried out at the

Champ de



Mars with a view to deterrninc the resistence of the sail to concentrated loads and in this way check thc dimensions to be given to the foundations in different cases. A perfectly level surface in the form of a square of 118 feet side was first prepared on which were -placed--to rectangular cast-iron blocks 1 foot 8 inches square, disposed so as to occupy the corner of a square the distance apart being 11 feet inches centre to centre and these spaces were bridged by girders constructed of '[irons. These girders were next loaded with T irons, the number and weight of which were carefully noted. At the end of 11 hours the weight on the girders had reached a total of 143.923 pounds. and indications of settlement became visible the stress on the surface of the ground being at this moment 7,311 tons per square foot, in which is in _cludel the weight of the blocks and girders in addition to the  above load The experiment was then abandoned till the following day when it was found that the settlement bad increased dur— ing the night to an amount varying between 10 1/4 inches and 11 inches. The experiment was now resumed and the load increased

were perhaps those made by a member ot the Institute, who fired loose roburite (1) in an atmosphere ot 1 OL of coal gas to 8 oz. air,

(2) under a layer ot gunpower (3) under a layer of gunpowder and fine coal dust mixed together without an explosion taking place Gunpowder fired under the conditions ot No. 3 gave violent explosion and long tongue of flame. -

As to the cost. from its increased power it appears to be as cheap as using powder. It does not seem to suffer in strength from

-being damped its affinity for moisture is not stated beyond the expression that it ought to be kept in a dry place the same as gunpowder. If it succeeds in the English coal pits we shall probably hear of it before long on this continent.





STEEL' .VERSUS WROUGHT IRON FOR. BUILDING PURPOSES.

M	R.C. L. STROBEL, Member or the American Society e Civil Engineers. give the following opinion on the above

subject which we find printed in die Engineering & Building Record ' I have 'read the article Steel versus Wrought Iron (or Building Purposes in the issue of March 17 aND are undoubt edly correct in the position you have taken There is one element or economy. however in favor of steel beams which was not mentioned. The lightest weight of 15-inch iron beams is 50 pounds per loot ; whereas 15 inch steel beams are rumished weighing 32 pounds. The lightest weigbt of 12-inch iron beams is 42 pounds per toot; whereas 12 inch steel beanis are furnished weighing 32 pounds. etc. If therefore a 12 inch 42 pound iron beam is required to carry a certain load, a 15 inch 41 pound steel beam can be substituted for it giving not only greater strength, but much less deflection as well.

The rolling of these light sections in iron is difficult and not very satistactory.

In connection with the question ot safety of metal constructions for buildings, I wish to call your attention to the general use ot cast iron for columns Formerly loads carried by columns were generally light, and the section provided much in excess of the re

-	quirements. Ot late however, columns have assumed a much more warehouses, apartment houses, etc.~ the columns practically carry afl the weight of the different floors in the building The walls

serve in many cases simply to fill in and form the outer shell for the building The factor of safety used is sometimes as low as 6.

·	Practically no tests are made on cast-iron 9.5 tO quality The columns cast oa their side, not on one end as is usually called for in the case ot water-pipe The result is that in many cases the columns are very thin on one side and excessively thick on

is uot mentioned in the other than there would be for omitting the

· items on certain pages of the specification. - If the plans and specifications do not agree, the architect is ready to decide which shall be followed i estimating to make a note of his decision, so that with reasonable care on the part of the builder, such as contractors' a associations should endeavor to inculate there is no chance of misunderstanding under the Canadian form, while the American rule opens the door to all sorts of extras, quarrels and dissatisfaction contract the builder is not allowed to sublet the whole or any portion of the contract without the written consent of the architect, while the Americans stipulate that the contractor shall not be restricted as to whom -he employs as sub-contractor unless previously notified It is not not quite clear whether the American rule requires that the architect shall notity the contractor not to employ certain persons, or to obtain his consent to sub-contractors If it means the latter the stipulation does not change the ordinary form; if the former every architect is to be obliged to lay himself open to a dozen libel suits if be wishes to protect his client against the transfer of his contract from a good builder to a bad one. and is even then liable tb see some strange e rascal from a neighbouring town substituted a care. rul and responsible builder whom e had persuaded contract with at an extra price for the sake of getting his work well done. In regard to forfeiture (or delay the Canadian contract provides that where delay occurs by reason of inclemency of weather, or strikes of particular trades, the architect shall extend. the time ot completion to a reasonable amount. The American rules say nothing aboutallowance of extra time for completion in. case or special circumstances - but' content themselves with the rather childish demand that where a penalty is to be exacted from the builder for delay beyond a certain date a premium of like amount shall be paid to the builder if he completes his work before the given date It ought to be obvious enough that owner has tor example given a lease of the house be proposes to build

— from a certain date as often happens he has arranged to give up his present residence on a fixed day, and move into his new one. he has a right to be compensated (or any damage he may suffer through the failure the builder to keep the promise he has voluntarily made while as it is of no advantage to him-to have teh house on his hands before the time at which he or his tenant is ready to move into it but rather an injury since a house hurried in building is never so good as one constructed deliberate

ly.	there is no reason whatever why he should pay- a builder a-'premium (or encumbering him, betore the stipulated time, with a building that he has ao use for, and is through the haste with which it was built ot less value than be intended and agreed to

