<doctype type="text">One more point that be carefully by all the projectors of improved building contracts Is that of arbitration Most of the old forms of contract, and many of the new ones provide that+ disputes between builder and owner shall be settled by two arbitrators, one chosen by each party who shall choose a third and the award of a majority of the arbitrators shall be final At first sight. this method of settling controversies has a certain charm, but to most architects it soon loses its attractiveness, and so good a lawyer as Sir Edmund Beckett denounces it in unmeasured terms, on no account, as he says should a building contract contain an arbitration clause, which simply commits the owner to the most expensive kind of lawsuit over every trifling affair that the builder may choose to require him to "leave out." Moreover as a builder's claim in court must be sustained by sworn evidence, subject to severe cross examination, and to the opinion of the architect, whose testimony generally determines the ease, while any sort of story may be palmed off on arbitrators, and an

	unscrupulous man is more likely to get something	to. him

 to		awarded

that he ought not to have by arbitrators than by a jury, the arbitration clause sets a premium on Fortunately perhaps, the ordinary arbitration clause in a building contract is not binding, The rule is that an agreement between two persons to "oust the courts ol their jurisdiction " void as contrary to public policy, and until the award of the arbitrators is made either party can refuse to be bound by it, and apply to the

courts, After it is made, however, under ordinary circumstances there is no appeal.--American Architect and Building News

<article title=" Hamilton " author="">

Hamilton

plans prepared by duly qualified architects, and the construction carried out under their superintendence, but on the contrary they submit their ideas to a carpenter or bricklayer who prepares a plan according to his own "practical knowledge,' you know which he submits with his estimate of cost. of erection, coupled with the assurance that by the adoption of the same the services of an architect can be dispensed with and his fces saved It is to be-hoped that this penny wise and pound foolish idea will be soon dissipated and better judgement prevail

There have been a number of dwelling houses erected here within the last few years to be sold on the progressive payment system 7 and most of them have-been so disposed of, but this mode of pro. prietoriety is falling into disrepute. At first sight the idea is plausible enough, but then the gild wears off after the first few years. When considerations given to the actual after all is paid, the possibility ot inability to make the regular payments and. consequently the probability of losing all that has been paid as well as all title or right to the estate—such reasoning has very prudently decided thc people to first obtain possession of a lot, then borrow the money on mortgage at a face rate of interest, and contract for the erection of their home at the lowest cost—when, with a reasonable rental the principal and interest could be paid off in from ten to fifteen yearly instalments. Probably more than half of the dwelling houses now being built are done- in this



Quite a number of tenement houses would also be erected here if the end would justify the means is to say, if the rent received would pay eight per ccnt. on the outlay after deducting for taxes and providing a sinking fund of I per cent. for wear and usage The question arises can this fair investment be made under the existing order of things The population of our cities is increasing, and dwellings must be had for them, but although workingmen's wages have largely increased within the last few years, the parties so benefitted show no disposition to pay higher rent for their homes



Montreal

The town of Port Arthur has decided by vote of the citizens that it is preferable that the new waterworks system for the town





-	should be constructed and owned by a private company, instead of by the corporations.



A pile driver which was being moved from one point to another in the construction of a new bridge at Sutton. Ont. fell over upon Mr. Myers,—father of the contractor, and Mr Thomas, Barker killing both men instantly

The following were the successful tenderers for materials n to be used in extending the waterworks system of Kingston Ont :—Cast-iron pipe and special castings, A. Gartshore I Hamilton pig-lead. Jas. Robertson, Montreal hydrants and valves Stevens & Burns, London, The cost of labor will be about $10,000

'Westminster Columbian:-About thirty-five new houses are in course of erection in this city, and plans are being prepared for nearly as many more, rhe class of buildings now being erected is far superior to the average dwellings which have been erected heretofore, and though rents are higher, nearly every house is leased before finished.

work, which. with that remaining unfinished from last year, reasonably justified the prevailing opinion that the building record of the "Ambitious City" for 1888 would surpass that of last year; and that there would be plenty of work for all hands at the same rate of wages. With such a prospect in view general satisfaction prevailed But unfortunately the usual discord and strife among the unions stopped all work, and although a settlement has been made between the Builders' Exchange and the workmen by the unions waving their unreasonable demands still the strike has bad a bad effect aud has damped the ardor or those about to build. Consequently there is very little Work in progress now, compared with what there would have been had no such strike_occurred. The building public seem to have taken a comprehensive view of the sutuation for the estimates for the work that has been tendered on so far have been greatly in excess of last year—so much so, that> few contracts have been let up to the present time, but we hope for the pest and if no further disruption takes place this work may be again estimated on and proceeded with, and the balance of the season may be a very busy one indeed.

following is the record of the, buildings for which permits have been issued up to May 4th by the building inspector as taken from

 this record is not by any means a correct statement of all the buildings

in course of erection as the builders-not being under any peculiarly obligation so to do, neglect to, make ihe required entries

Mr. Y Stewart, 2 l)rick dwellings on York street; Mr; Milne, 2 new plate 'glass fronts, corner or James and Rebecca streets; Mr. Thomas, 6 dwelling houses on Bruce street Dr. Farwell, 3 dwell ing houses on Napier street; Mr. Taylor, z dwelling house on

Emerald street; Mr. Warwick, dwelling house on McGee street;

Dr. James, 1 dwelling house Vines street; s 'dwelling house

Napier street Mr. Brooks, 3 dwellings houses York. street

between Hep and Carqlinc streets; Mr. Peene 2 dwelling houses..

Charles street ; J. Bell, new plate glass front, 117 Rebecca Street;

Mallock & Gibson, brick stores on Bay Street south Mr. hamilton a dwelling house on East Avenue Mr. Davis. r 2-storey

factory at street; Mr. Martin,, 2 stores on James~ street north.

The building of our new city hall has commenced. but is retarded by the action of the labor unions Matters are now being settled, however, 'and it will be - pushed on with' energy. The plan for the proposed new V. M. C. A. building are being pre pared the required amount. for the erection of> the same having been already subscribed, and as soon as the site is secured the plans will be submitted for tendering on.

the city.. Work is being pushed forward in alt parts of the city and St. James street, the principal thoroughfare, is quite a transformation scene,

—for on this street stone there are at least eighteen new fronts in construction and this, with five imposing edifices, will make St. James the finest street as ike Dominion.

The Matson property is to oe remodelled at a cost of $20,000 by Messrs. Rice. Shaptey & Co. The architecture will be of the Elizabethan order.  Mr. J. J. Brown is the architect.

Plans will be asked for the new Young Men's Christian' Association building on Dominion Square next month. The present building on Victoria Square is for sale.

The dismantling of the old offices of the Canadian Pacific Railway has

-been commenced. The foundations have been examined by Mr. C. Clinton, of New York, the architect who is su superintending the work for the Imperial Life. It is found necessary to take down the two wings, and then the foundations would nor be strong enough' for the extra weigh - which to be added.

The impression that the cost of building is greater this year than usual  has somehow gained growth among intending investors, 'arid statements to this effect have been made in the papers here. During the winter mechanics laborers were asking for higher wages and many capitalists held off, but this does not apply to the present time, and as the men wilt now take less, it is a fact that the cost of building is actually lower than



<article title=" Winnipeg " author="">

Winnipeg

	(Correspondence	canadian architect AND builder



the architects in this city at present have very little work,  but hope that business will improve shortly There are a few private houses being built in and around the city, mostly frame. Work has commenced on the new buildings for the General, Hospital. Mr. Zindord. contractor, has a large gang of men at work on the R. R. V. R. bridges Mr. Lomesse contractor, has commenced work again on the Selkirk asylum which had stopped for the winter. Tenders ate invited for

a maternity hospital Messrs. Timewell & Son, architects, received tender, for a 50,000 bushel elevator at Neepawa, and are preparing plans for one at St. Jean Baptiste on the R. R. V. R. The bricklayers have adopted the 9 hour system and hours on Saturday





The Salvation Army Barracks at London Ont. will cost $14,000

Lucigen is an oil burner.

The inventor started out with the original intention of introducing his light to meet the requirements of railroad construction and other similar work' which demanded strong and brilliant illumination coupled with portability but it was not long before a -thousand and one uses appeared .to. which this light

could' It is said that ship owners, whose vessels ply the English channels, intend introducing the Lucigen 'on their ships, supplanting and green light now in common use and so frequentlv found to be invisible or. deceptive in a slight haze. One"or two Lucigens it is claimed, would light up a ship and the surrounding sea so clearly that the masts, spars and hull of the vessel will be visible for miles this has been unsuccessfully tried with electricity', but the blinding glare of the electric light was proved to render all but itself invisible;



entirely possible.

This new light has great diffusive e power and broad glow of light, and combined with its extreme simplicity have led to its adoption in all the important engineering and shipbuilding-centres in Great Britain. If the re-'liable reports that we hear, speaking in such glowing terms of this new light, beat' the test of practical use, a very important lamp has been discovered



As colors undergo apparent modification according to

-	their position and the quantity and the direction of the light falling upon them—a color on a horizontal plane,

-	for instance showing a different hue from that displayed on a perpendicular surface—it is always well before applying colors and tints to walls and ceilings, to attach a sample of the proposed color, painted on the paper

—	to the surface this being the only correct way of select ing the most suitable bus ot' tint —

