<doctype type="text">canadian architect and builder competition

<article title=" canadian architect and builder competition " author="">

We are exceedingly pleased with the result of this  competition; eight designs of more than average excellence having, been submitted It was with some doubt that we determined to hold a competition, fearing that there might not be any response on the part of Canadian draughtsmen The amount of the prizes was notbyany means large, and we were somewhat afraid that draughtsmen might not enter acompetition for the sake of improvement That they have done so is very gratifying and shows the there are among the draughtsmen a few who are desirous of being more than servient preparers of designs at the dictation of ignorant clients

·The greater number of clients value an architect in the degree that he will carry out their ideas without protest. An architect who has studied his profession as he should -will have derived much information useful to his client if he will but receive it, and when he refuses the architect must, if he values his reputation, do his utmost to convince the client of his error.

The designs sent in nearly every description of client, and there are others which have been prepared with no little study that would exactly meet the wants of the many It is our intention to criticize all the plans to the best of our ability, pointing out what we consider defects, and suggesting im provements. We hope by this means to assist draughts-. men who are desirous of learning, by giving them hints on the points. to be considered in the planning of houses.

	In another column will	found a	of the design



placed first by the experts 

We believe that a large number of the designs came from a single office in this city, and that six out of the

prizes were taken by students of that office This speaks very highly of the esprit de corps, among those students,

and where there is so much rivalry there must

	necessarily be progress	—	-



 Those who sent in designs and did not get a position,' or who only received a low one, must not become dis

Short description of design FOR a $2,500 TOWN house BY "DESSIR A Teur."

This design has for its first object, simplicity in both plan and elevations. The rooms have been planned with the view of obtaining the mellow rays-of the morn ing sun. The entrances are so arranged as to be free from the effects of snow slides &c_ from the roof, which to " climate. By combining the stair-cases—which seems permissable in a house_ cost for generally a client of such means expects a house half as large again as can be built for his expenditure—a saving of both space and money is effected. The convenience of a wide stair from laundry & c. to the garden is also to be noted.

Materials.--Outside cellar walls to be of stone, interior walls of 9 inch brick. Timber of good dry and clear white pine. The structure above the cellar walls will be of frame; the exterior walls to be covered, both sides, with matched sheeting and felt; battened and lathed and plastered inside, and first storcy outside covered with clapboards, and second storey and gables with cut shingles ; roof to be laid with shingles on mortar. All of work is to be painted excepting the two ground floor rooms, which will be of best varnished pine. All shingle work, to be untouched to turn grey with the weather. This design cubes at 8c. the amount stated.



<article title=" CONSTRUCTION OF ROOFS " author="Curry, S. G.">

CONSTRUCTION OF ROOFS.

Architects S. G. Curry gave a very instructive address on the "Construction of Roofs," before

Toronto Architectural Draughtsmen's Association on Tuesday evening, April 17th The subject of roof coverings, the merits of various kinds, and how some ot the difficulties are to be met in_obtaining a weather-tight roof, particularly where ice and snow have to be contended with was first taken up, after which Mr. Curry dealt with the construction of trusses, dwelling on the importance of having the main points "fixed" to secure perfect rigidity  The address was concluded by. 'an explanation of Ricker's system of graphic statics for the calculation of strains, illustrated by diagrams. Mr. Curry, who has always shown a practical- interest in the Association, was accorded a hearty vote of thanks at the close for his able and instructive address.





OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

dignity which is highly satisfactory.. The elevations are carefully ctrawn, and the perspective is artistically -treated.

- We must compliment the author on his design. We do not remember ever seeing one which has pleased us more, or with which it was possible to find so little fault, If we were building a house of this size, we should



without an alteration either in plan or elevation. If the author in the future does work equal to what he has shown himself capable of doing at the present success asan architect is assured. He may occasionally find it difficult to convince his clients, through their inability to appreciate good planning and. artistic work. I

CHURCH OF ST. SIMONS ROSEDALE, TORONTO.

- The exterior of tlie building is -of red brick-; with Credit Valley stone coursing and dressings ; the upper part of half timbered work filled in with Credit Valley broken stone fillings ; the: gables and exterior work of choir is finished in- tiling, and work finished in deep tones of redsand greens

The interior of nave is furnished with a brick dado, the walls and ceilings being of trowelled stucco decorated. The ceilings and walls of choir, baptistry and chancel are elaborately decorated in colors and bronzes



The furniture of the nave ancl church is of ash brought

to a dark rich color.

Cost of the entire building, including heat and fur nishing, $10,000.

Messrs. Strickland & Synions designed and superintended the construction of the building. Davidson & & Kelly.executed the carpenter work, and Elliott Son the decorative work..

<article title=" TORONTO Architectural GUILD " author="">

-TORONTO Architectural GUILD.

T

HE regular monthly dinner of the Architectural Guild took place on Thursday evening last., The attendance, though not large, was more than made up by the enthusiasm of the members present. -

A vote of thanks was unanimously passed to Mr. Bain, of the public library, for.liis. kindness in receiving the members of the Guild on April 12th for the arrange.

ments he had made to show the valuable collection of works on architecture which the library contains .for his' special invitation to the members to make use of the library for reference purposes to the freest possible extent.

Those who sent in designs and did not get a position,' or whoonly received a low one, must not become discouraged. They have now some knowledge of where they stand in competition with others, and will be able to study with some knowledge of their deficiencies.

We will illustrate a number of the designs sent in, so



what secured success.

·	It is our, intention to hold another competition later on, when the work in the_different offices is not so pressing as at the present time. "Ample notice will be given to allow of careful study, and we expect to have a more thorough and instructive competition than the one just held, successful as it has been.

Another pleasing feature of'the competition, and one whick we were nearly forgetting was that designs were sent in from, long distances, one coming from Prince Edward Island. We hope to velcome in our next com petition designs from all parts of Canada.





The Committee appointed by the Architectural  Guild of Toronto to adjudge the prizes offered by

the Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, for the best design for a town house costing $2,500 beg to submit the following report

We find for excellence of plan arid elevation, and for'

-	due regard to the limitation of price, the following five names most successful in order of merit; as follows:

i.	"Dessir a Teur," (John C. B. Howard, Toronto).

2.	"Nevis," (E. Wilby, Toronto).

3.	"Solaria," (C. B. Chappel, Charlottetown, P. E.



4.	"Gamut," C. H. Acton Bond, Toronto).

5.	"Deux Mille Cinq Cent," (Chas. E. Langley, Toronto).

For skill in rendering the perspective drawing, we consider the four most excellent to be the following, placed in order of merit:

i.	"Dessir a Teur."

2.	D. R. B." David R. Brown, Montreal). 

3.	"Nevis."

4." Gamut."

One of. the illustrations in this number 15 the design

sent in in the canadian architect AND builder competition by " Dessir a Teur." The design was placed first by the committee of experts appointed by the Architectural -Guild, a - position to which it most deservedly is entitled. The author has given time and study without stint, and has conceived a plan which is almost without a fault. He has placed the dining room in its proper position, having an eastern exposure, which will allow of the breakfast hour being' brightened by the rays' of the morning sun. Again, the dinner hasnot to be partaken of in the summer months, in a room heated to a most uncomfortable temperature by the afternoon sun. The serving pantry is not large, but it is ample for the size of the house, and the store closet is a very yaluable addition. The kitchen is well placed, and is not rendered useless by the number or  . A kitchen closet -would have been a deci Wed advantage, and would have improved this design, but everything is not attainable with a limited expenditure. The open porch to kitchen is a clever arrangement which in winter could be taken advantage of by placing an outside door with a glass sash above it across the opening, thus shutting out a large amount of cold. The parlor, is very satisfactory, and has a pleasant bay window with a southern exposure. The entrance is well managed, with a fair sized vestibule and open porch. The, staircase hall is small, but sufficient, and well pro. portioned. The sliding doors allow of the space being made the most of in the hall and rooms. The main, staircase and servants' stairs have been most cleverly

managed 

It was decided to institute a series of competitions on architectural subjects, for competition among the students in the offices of members of the Guild first competition to be measured drawings of a public



Other competitions will follow.

A committee was appointed to report on the question of some regular method of articleing students in

tecture, and also to determine if it is possible to enforce some standard of educational qualification

An informal discussion took place on the proposed conditions of the board of Trade competition. General, satisfaction was expressed at the possibility of having. a first class competition, conducted on principles which must result beneficially to the Board of Trade and also  to the architectural profession

Notice was-given that at the annual meeting in January  a motion to amend the constitution would be made as follows: "That the membership of any member of this Guild shall lapse, 1st when he does not pay his annual' fee on or before the 1st day of' April in each year, and 2nd, when he has not attended 6o per cent. of the regular meetings of the Guild without good and sufficient cause, viz., illness, or prolonged absence from the city."'



THE_PROPOSED NEW TORONTO EXCHANGE

 building

