<doctype type="text">DESTRUCTION OF LEAD PIPE IN MASONRY. <article title=" DESTRUCTION OF LEAD PIPE IN MASONRY " author="Knorre, G. V.">

A

CCORDING to G. V. Knorre. in a German contemporary the destruction of lead pipe which is set in masonry is due to the action of free lime Penson had previously observed that saturatee lime water attacks lead and that it was imprudent to

- have lead pipes in contact with cements

If bright lead and lime water are brought together with the exclusion of air, the lead will not be attacked. and its lustre



access the lead will be attacked violently by the lime water. After the lapse of a short time, the presence of considerable quantities of lead may be detected in solution by means of hydrogen sulphide and the lead will be coated with yellow oxide If lead is placed into slacked lime, milk of lime or lime mortar and exposed to the air, the action of Lhe lime, a thin yellow coating of oxide will be observed on the following day. The action will always be found strongest at this surface where the absorption ot oxygen from the air takes place most readily. The hydrated oxide of lead which is formed by the action of the oxygen and moisture dissolves in the lime water

	and is partly precipitated	upon the lead as anbydrous

yellow oxide.. Such a coating of yellow oxide will therefore also be formed when lead 'pipe is brought into contact with cement or mortar containing uncombined lime in the presence of air and moisture

 A lead pipe which had been imbedded in cement was coated with a heavy reddish-yellow coating of oxide. The analysis of the coating dried at 110 0 C gave 99-05 per cent. oxide ot lend. the remainder consisting of carbon dioxide with traces of silica, ferric oxide and lime The coating therefore consisted essentially or pure oxide of lead An analysis of the oxide coating of a second pipe are 98 69 per cent. oxide of lead the remainder consisting of dioxide and water

The mortar surrounding the lead £ had the following compo.

	Per cent

Sand	78.4

Calcium carbonate	7.45

Calcium oxide                            

	4.13

Water                                       

On a number of lead pipes of the Berlin water supply the Oxide coating was white when caustic lime is not present the oxide of lead formed through the oxidation will take up carbon dioxide from the air and form the white carbonate If on the contrary -caustic lime is not present the carbon dioxide will be absorbed by

and the oxide of lead will keep its yellow of red color.

The greater part of the pipes with the white coating were not uniformly attacked, but only in spots, giving them a pot-marked appearance Very often the spots were only 2 mm in diameter but Lhe corrossion nevertheless goes quite deep into the metal The oxide crusts are generally found to be very porous especially that on pipe Ill. and absorbed liquid with much avidity which decidedly increases the rapidity of the corrosion The quantitative analysis or thc coating on three samples of lead gives the fol

lowing results:			 4

		~I _	.11	 111

Sand	-:	0.2	0.5	·

CRUSHING STRENGTH OF SOME BUILDING Materials <article title=" CRUSHING STRENGTH OF SOME BUILDING Materials " author="">

a recent meeting of ihe Engineers Club of Philadelphia A m Howard Murphy. secretary presented the results or



somc tests of the crushing strengths of some building stones bricks and other building material made at the Watertown Arsenal.

FRENCH VENEERING PROCESS.

<article title=" FRENCH VENEERING PROCESS " author="">

interested in a so-called



They claim that these veneers fully preserve the appearance and qualities ot the massive wood. The veneers are pasted on strongly resisting sheets of papaer and in that state cold to the trade These veneers the suppleness of which is most extraordinary can be handled quite as easily as tapestry paper and are useful for various purposes they have all the qualities of the wood in full size and can be quite as easily washed or vanished The mode of appli cation on surfaces is very simple, but a certain amount of care is

· required. especially when great duration or work is desired all the grooves and fissures must first of all be filled up with putty or a good quality or plaster it it should be a wall. if the wall is new it must be washed with a warm solution of glue. 1¾ pints of gluepaste to 14 pints of water. When the glue is dry the wall may be polished with emery paper. If the object has already been paper ted the old paper must be removed before the - veneer is applied. In cases where the object is painted it would be necessary to rub the paint with rough emery paper first and polish it with the finest kind afterwards coating with glu on the paint A small quantity or flour paste must then be applied to the surface prepared in this manner by means or a piece of muslin. The stuff should be applied dry and smoothed with an equally dry brush When these operations are completed the veneer is moistened moistened the water to which glycerine in the proportion of one to sixteen parts added in order to soften the wood a great suppleness when once dried. As soon as the wood has swollen uniformly enough it may be cut into different sizes as required. The surface about to be veneered is then coated with glue and the veneers are placed in proper order. They are then tightly pressed

Messrs. Thos. McDonald & Co. proprietors of the Queen City



patent metallic shingle are making considerable additions to their

- works, and placing new machinery	. - 

- - P. G. Close. H. V. Ellis. P. W. Ellis, W. P. Ellis, Suzannah Jane Ellis and Sarah Ellen, Moodie all of Toronto are incorporated as the Ungerford Marble Company, WiLl a capital of $100 000 The company will commence mining operations in Hastings

	County -	· 



· - A by-law will be voted upon by the ratepayers of St. Thomas on the 22nd to grant a bonus of$6 ooo to Mr. Still, of Tilbury Centre.

- provided he removes his wood working factory from that place to -St. Thomas and employs an average of forty hands fora period of ten years

There is talk of a company	formed in Toronto to engage in the manufacture of scoriated brick. The promoters of the enterprise are Messrs. f. J. Davidson j. D. Hay, and Beverly Robinson. A test at these bricks for paving purposes will be made

on Toronto streets	. -

A.	very fine mahogany stain is made by boiling in one gallon of water eight ounces or madder and four ounces or fustic The old rule is to streak the wood before it is quite dry with black stain to produce the grain of mahogany but some kinds of wood give much better results when finished by the process recommended for the antique oak surface The American Cultivator recommends mixture of hydraulic

cement and skim milk for painting farm buildings and fences. The cement is placed in bucket and sweet skim milk stirred in until the mixture is of the consistency of cream the proportions are about one quart of cement to a gallon of milk Color may be added if desired. This paint is cheap and durable

·ro restore mahogany first wash well with soap and water and then polish daily with the following oil: Take half an ounce of alkenat root, cut small and add to a pint of lin oil, let -this stand tor a week, then add half an ounce of powdered gum. arabic and an ounce of shellac varnish. Keep these ingredients standing by in a bottle near a fire for a week and then strnin off. When using, rub it well in.

Perhaps the most wonderful thing that has been discovered of late is the new glass which has just been. made in Sweden. Our common glass contains only six substances, while the Swedish glass consists or '4. the most important elements being phosphorous and boron, which are not round in any other glass. The revolution which this new refractor is destined to make is almost incon- 

- ceivable. if it is true as positively alleged that, while ihe highest power of an old-fashioned microscope lens reveals only the one four hundred-thousandth part of an inch this new glass will enable us to distinguish one two hundred adn four million sven hundred thousandth part an inch____PUBLICATIONS



 E note with pleasure that our excellent American



VV contemporary the Progressive Age I will in be published semi-monthly instead of monthly as

on pipe Ill. and absorbed liquid with much avidity. which decidedly increasesthe rapidity of the corrosion. The quantitative analysis of the coating on three samples of lead gives the fol. lowing results:

		In	 II III

Sand		0.2	0.5 1.5

Plunibic oxide			82.7— 78.4-

Carbon dioxide.. 	3.8	8. 3	11.4

Sulphur trioxide.		1.5	1.3

Nitrogen pentoxide	3.1	2.0	0.3

Lead-chloride         —~-;; 10.6 —		2.6	8--

Water	1.0	1.7	1.3



The coating of another strongly corroded pipe contained still more nitrate. Lead chloride and lead nitrate appear to play a very important part in the corrosion. of lead. the chemical process corresponding to the formation of white lead, with the aid of small quantities of acetic acid In an impure soil. the destruction of lead pipe is probably often prevented by the lack of oxygen, be. cause the decomposition of organic matters consume all the oxygen

which is present.	-.	—--	- -~

-—-C.-. -	— -—---- —



painting on cement  

CCORDING to the bulletin de la ceramique it is known that

the caustic lime which in a state of combination in— cement, saponifies the, oil used in, painting. Consequently,.

-	painting on cement is only practicable when, under the influence of the air carbonic acid has united with the caustic lime to form carbonate of lime. When it is desired to. paint cement without delay, attempts are sometimes made to neutralize the lime by acids; but the above named journal recommends in preference the use of ammonia. the acid of which combines with the lime while

_	the acid is liberated. The, effect produced is, however, . only artificial Various other expedients are referred to but The solu

—	tion of the rroblem would seem to consist in the use of caseine; Fresh white cheese and slaked fat lime are added to the color. The mixture hardens rapidly assumes the consistency of stone and is insoluble in water, a formation or albuminate of lime taking place. It is according to this system that the muraL paintings at

—	the Berlin War Museum were executed —.

To make the composition, three parts of cheese and one of slaked fat lime are stirred, the quantity of color to be added being regulated by practice. Only earth colors, or oxides of iron would be used for light red to dark' brown shades for blue, ultramarine or cobalt blue would be used; for white, oxide of zinc, or_sulphate of baryta; and for black animal black. Inorganic colors; such as those or aniline, would not be used nor would Prussian blue, vermillion, blue ochre and white lead be employed, on account of the sulphur present in the cheese its combination with these substances .

If the painting surface is too dry it can easily be dampened.



be cleaned after the application of each coat of pant. The pro-

—	cess thus described is recommended for its economy the walls of a house being painted as fast as the scaffolding, is removed. The

gaseous paint does note easily take and is therefore considered particularly suitable for the decoration of theatres and for applies

pleness when once dried. As soon is the wood has swollen uniformly enough it may be cut into difterent sizes as required. The surface about to be veneered is then coated with glue and the veneers are placed in proper order They are then tightly pressed in order to expel the air. A piece of pine or cork wood may be used for that purpose. All. the joint parts must be juxtaposed and not allowed to overlap, and all the paste must be carefully wiped off. As soon as the wood is dry all the stains that may have been made in these manipulations shotild be removed by washing with a weak solution of oxalic acid in water, one teaspoonful of acid in one and three-fourths pints. of water. All these operations being completed, the wood after being well dried is rubbed by No. emery paper, or No. 2 for fine woods, and afterwards thoroughly polished. For maple wood two slight coats of white shellac will be quite sufficient Wood like oak and ash require to be filled out with wax, softened in methylated spirits and afterward polished with orange shellac or hard oil polish



·	Limestone is being taken from nearMadoc for building purposes in Toronto

Mr. Charles Taylor Drumbo, Ont., is erecting a new brick planing mill,

The firm of Halley Bros., planing mill operators, St. John, N. R, has been dissolved.

The Blacker Brick Co. Brantford, Ont., is the name of a new organization which commences operations with a capital of $20 coo.

The Campbell Sewer Pipe Company, of Hamilton, Ont., has secured the contract of supplying Winnipeg with pipe for the current year.

-	Fire destroyed Mr. George Augustine's planing mill and $1,000 worth of lumber at Port Colborne on April 30th Total loss, 5,000 No insurance. Wood pulp is rapidly being substituted for plaster of paris in the manufacture of all kind of building ornaments in France, where a new method has been devised. .

About $1,500,000 worth of property was destroyed In the United States and Canada during the month of March through fires originating in wood-working establishments.

Publications.

 WE note with pleasure that our excellent American  contemporary, the Progressive Age will in future be published semi-monthly instead of monthly as heretofore. publication offices too, have been removed from Philadelphia to New York. The progressive age devotes itself entirely to gas topcs, and —is an ably conducted_journal.. -

We have received from the author a copy of a

" Manual of Engineers' Calculations by D. McLaughlin Smith, late clerk of Steamboat- Inspection Office, St. John, N. B. - This work, which is designed to assist engineers desirous of passing the Board of Steamboat Inspection, contains rules for working and answering the kind of questions usually profounded to such candidates. — The book contains many valuable tables and a number of_illustrations. A beautifully engraved portrait of the author's father, William M. Smith, M. E., fomis the frontispiece to the book, and a sketch of his life is also found in its pages. Persons interested in the subjects of which this book treats will find its contents great practical interest and value

Our esteemed contemporary, the Sanitary News has advanced its subscription price from $2 to $3 per year.

