<doctype type="text">

<article title="Explosion of a Domestic Hot Water Boiler" author="">EXPLOSION OF .A: DOMESTIC HOT WATER BOILER

The boiler in question was used in

a hotel in a large

city in one of the northwestern States, where the

temperature is very low at times. It was connected to the kitchen range ; the range was a large one, and the heating surface was furnished by a coil of 1 1/2 inch pipe

near the top, instead of the cast iron front or back such as is commonly used in the-smaller ranges in private dwellings the connections to the boiler were

 the usual manner the accompanying cut shows Its essential features

The operation 4 all boilers of this sod is as follows the connections being made as shown in cut, the

water is turned on from the main supply and the entire system is filled with water. When it is filled and all outlets are closed, it is evident that no more water can run in, although the boiler is in free connection with and is subjected to the. full pressure of the sotirce of supply When fire is started in the range and the water in the circulating Pipes of water-back is heated, the water expands is consequently lighter, and flows out through the pipe into the boiler at A, as this connection is placed higher up- than the one at B; this starts the circulation, and the water as it becomes heated constantly flows into the boiler at A, and rises to the upper part of the boiler, while the cooler water at the bottom of the boiler flows out into the circulating pipes at B, aud it no water is drawn a slow circulation goes on, as eat is radiated from the boiler in the direction indicated by the arrows. the water at the top of the boiler always being much

- hotter than at the- bottom.—When the— hot water cock is opened, cold water instantly "begins to flow into the boiler at D, by reason of the pressure on the city main

thing was all right at 8 o'clock the previous evening for water was drawn that The are was built in the range at 4 o'clock a.m. It is admitted that the cold water supply pipes were frozen tor no water could be

for kitchen use It

the	is arso proved absolutely that

	water supply was frozen or otherwise stopped up,

by the fact that at 7 o'clock the plumber who came to thaw out the pipes opened the hot water cock adn got

neither water nor steam." Here was his. opportunity. to prevent any trouble, but he let it pass. Any one who understood his-. business would have known- that there must have been a tremendous pressures in the boiler- at

this time, as the range had been fired steadily for three hours there was about eight square feet of heating surface exposed to the fire by the circulating pipe in the range, and there had been no outlet for the great pressure which must have been generated during this three hours' firing. The blow-off cock should have been tried at once ; if this were clear, and the probability is, from its proximity to the range, that it was clear, the pressure could have been relieved and the disaster averted if the blow-off proved to be stopped Up, then the fire should have been at once taken out of tile range are the time the plumber opened the cocks connecting the boiler, it probably was under a pressure four or have hundred pounds per square inch. An ordinary cast-iron water-back such as is used in small ranges in private houses, would have exploded shortly after the fire was built but it will be noticed that the heating surface in this case was furnished by a coil of 1 1/2 inch pipe this was very strong, and the boiler was the first thing to give way, simply because it was the weakest part of the system

the authorities of this city are so economical that they cannot afford to erect a garbage crematory; but deposit in all the low lying -places in the city filth which should be completely destroyed by fire · What the result of this mode of may The. cannot be

definitely stated but that many of the future inhabitants, of this city will be

many will when they need not have been, and many will be laid in their last resting place before their time; because of

the false notions of economy entertained by our govern

ing bodies

<article title="Ventilation and Disease" author="">Ventilation and Disease



The following recommendations formed the substance of a report the subject of ventilation presented by a Committee of the Provincial Board of Health of Ontario at the meeting held in this city a fortnight ago :—1st, -that the sputa of consumptive patients, wherever it is possible to have it sot be received into- suitable vessels -containing a disinfectant and as soon as possible dis posed of by fire ; 2nd, that the freest possible ventilation of rooms occupied -by consumptive patients be always and in every case secured, and in order to accomplish this result that (a) minimum space of 1,000 cubic feet should be allowed to each occupant of a bedroom, (b) superfluous curtains carpets, furniture, etc., should be

-	forbidden,- (c)-~ wall- paper- on bedrooms should also be forbidden ; 3rd,. that as consumption is the principal cause of death in this province, and the germs of the dis - ease must therefore be widespread1 thorough ventilation -of public buildings, especially school rooms and dwellings, is strongly recommended ; 4th, that sanitation and health resorts in which consumptive patients are brought into close proximity with patients affected with other diseases, more particularly diseases - of the air passages are to be avoided : 5th, that in hospitals tuberculous patients ought to be separated from those affected with other diseases ; 6th, that in a private family occupancy of the same bed or even of the-same room with a consumptive patient, if consistent with the duties

	of humanity, be forbidden



+++++++++++++



drawn a slow circulation goes on, as heat is radiated from the boiler in the direction indicated by the arrows. the water at the top of the boiler always being much

—hotter—than-at the- -bottom.--- When -the--hot-water cock is opened, cold water instantly begins to ilow into the boiler at D, by reason of the pressure on the city main, and forces hot water out of the boiler at C. Thus it will be seen that hot water cannot be drawn unless the cold water inlet is free, and it is equally evident that cold water cannot enter the boiler unless the hot water cock

or some other outlet is open.	

The above points being understood, we are in a position to investigate the cause of the, explosion referred to, which killed one person and badly injured twelve or thirteen others besides badly damaging the building. -

On the morning of the explosion fire was started as usual in the range about 4 o'clock a.m. It was found on trying to draw water that 'none could be had from either cold or hot water pipes; it was rightly judged that the pipes were frozen. The, fire was continued in the

               the breakfast prepared as best it range, however, and



could be, and a plumber sent for to thaw out the pipes. He arrived on the premises about o'clock, as would naturally be the case. He opened both hot and cold water cocks, and getting neither steam nor water, concluded (here was no danger, and proceeded to thaw out, some pipes in the laundry department first. About an hour afterward the explosion occurred. The lower head of the boiler ret go, and the main portion of the boiler shot upward like a rocket through the four stories of the hotel and out through the roof. -

The coroner held an inquest on the remains of the person killed, and some of the testimony given, as reported jn local paper, would be amusing were it not for the tragic nature of the affair which called it out. The usual expert, with the usual' vast and unlimited years of experience, was there and swore positively to statements which a ten year-old boy who had been a week in the business ought to be ashamed to make. He had examined the wreck with a view to solving the mystery? The matter was as much of a mystery now as it was on - the day of the - explosion? His theories were exploded as fast as he presented them -The boiler must have been empty. If it had been' full of water it could not possibly have exploded, etc., etc. And then a lot more nonsense about the :peculiar" construction of the boiler. As a matter of fact there was nothing peculiar precisely like all boilers of this' class, of which there are probably hundreds of boilers in daily operation through- -

out of the country, and moreover they		were all right

 Now let 4$ inquire what caused the explosion. Every-

Accidents of this sort can be easily avoided by exercising a little intelligence and care. - The hot water cock should always be opened the first thing on entering the kitchen every cold morning. If the water flows freely, fire may then be started in the range without danger. If it does not flow freely, don't build a fire until it does.

The Locomotive. ""	-	-

<article title="Sanitary Condition of Toronto" author="">SANITARY CONDITION OF TORONTO.

THE Toronto City Commissioner had inserted in-the daily papers recently a statement that all the streets and lanes in the, city had been cleaned, and' that he' would be much obliged to any citizen who would inform him of streets remaining uncleaned. We were struck on reading the notice with the thoughtfuliiess of the Commissioner, and his evident desire to honestly fulfil his 'duties. Accepting his invitation, we began peering into lanes when opportunity offered in our daily walks. We expected to find them as perfectly clean as possible, but in this we were greatly disappointed. Many, it is true had been cleaned, but what a number had not been'-touched It was also noticed, whenever investigation was carried far enough, that many lanes -leading out 'of other lanes were filthy from end to end,. and that nearly all the cleaning had been done in those opening into important streets. - ' 

If it is unavoidable that the citizens must put up. with dirty lanes throughout the winter months, they' should -certainly have the benefit of clean ones during the summer. Dirt should be removed for the sake-of cleanhiness, but much more because it is the cause of disease. There is too much apathy on the part of the people on all sanitary questions. If it is only some one else who is ill, we do not concern ourselves? but when we are ill, we look at things very differently. In the one case, we call

for economy and condemn extravagance ;

 in the other

The town of' Strathroy will shortly be lighted by electricity.

J. Harris, plumber, Halifax, N.S., is reported as haying assigned. -

The streets of St.- Thomas will be lighted by electricity for the next three years at a cost of 28 cents per light.

It is recommended that the water supplied to the citizens of Ottawa should be purified by aeration, precipitation and filtration. - -

the Standard Electric Light Company of Canada

Cookshire, Que., has been incorporated with $25,000

capital stock, for the purpose of manufacturing electric

apparatus. -

Plumbers are reminded by the Sanitary News , that a fortress is no stronger than at its weakest point, therefore, the best job of plumbing with a little leak is hardly better than a botch.

The Medical Health Officer, City Engineer and representatives of the City Council of London, Ont., have had a conference with the Provincial Board of Health regarding the best -method of disposing of sewage. -

The water supply of St. Johns, Que., has been "declared impure .- and unwholesome. The water  from the 'Richelieu is good if 'taken at the proper point and led to the town in such— a manner that contamination' would' be-i -

In view of the possible danger from Asiatic cholera during the approaching summer,' it is gratifying to observe the promptitude of the Dominion Government in deciding to make needed improvements at Grosse Isle, for the purpose of perfecting as far as possible our quarantine system, in accordance with the suggestion of the Provincial Boards of Health. -

The Master Plumbers' Association of Philadelphia, recommends as a proper test of house drainage a pressure equal to th three pounds to the square inch applied to the soil-pipes or drainage-system in new house; orto entire new work in old houses before the fixtures are

attached or placed in position and for work with the fixtures

attached a pressure equal to "water gauge."

The recommendation of the Medical Health Officer that vendors of milk be required to obtain' permits, and submit to having their premises regularly inspected has been adopted by the -Toronto Local Board of Health. The necessity for a more careful oversight of milk vendors and their premises formed the subject of comment

in these columns recently, and we are pleased to,

