<doctype type="text">heated term It would also removes th necessity of dumping this material in the low lying parts of the city or along the bay front where it must eventually cause trouble. That the Island will some day be turned into a most beautiful park, resorted to by many thousands of our citizens no one can doubt The question is, how

may it be done in the shortest time and in the mosteconomical matter ? If some definite line at actions is adopted, and year by year it is worked upon, it will not be very long before a very decided improvement is noticeable..



We gave a word of caution to builders recently against yielding up their hard-earned dollars to.

the persuasiveness of smooth-tongued representatives of Co-operative Building Plan Associations, or publishers of what are called in the United States "ready-made misfit building plans." The warning as we have. since

— learned, was a timely one, although we regret that it came too late to save some. A builder in this city sadly

confessed the other day that be was unable at present -

·	to subscribe for the Canadian ARCHITECT AND



Builder as he had recently thrown away fifteen dollars on abook of" misfit plans." He frankly confessed that he had be en badly-" sold" but seemed to find comfort in the fict that the owner of a neighboring shop had been. "taken in ",also. The latter on being spoken to, showed plainly by his manner that the subject was not a pleasant one' to him. Both men admitted that, while they had each got a very nice picture book, every attempt to apply the information printed them to practical purposes

·	had resulted in utter failure.





There is much need of reform in the operation of

·	by-law which is supposed to govern the issuing of building permits iii the city ot Toronto. We do not at present know all the provisions of the existing bylaw, but we do know that some of the most important are scarcely if ever complied with. Persons intending to build within the fire limits are supposed under this bylaw to submit plans of the proposed building for the approval of the Building Inspector and to obtain a per-Knit before the work is commenced Instead of this

  being done, buildings are in the majority of cases commenced and partially or wholly erected before a permit authorizing the work to be done is granted The Build ing Inspector has the power in such cases, if the provisions of the by-law have been, disregarded, to compel

                    .

along lines satisfactory to our subscribers and adver tisers If those persons who take an interest in this

journal would advance its welfare whenever opportunity offered by increasing its subscription lists and gaining for it advertisements. should feel very grateful. As this is the only Canadian journal devoted _to the  interest of architecture and its sister arts, we would ask for the cordial support of— all Canadians who love their country and hope to see it as rapidly advance in the love

N

of art as it has already done in more material interests.



At the corner of King and onge streets in this"' city A there was a very serious blockade of vehicles the other day. At the time there did not seem to be any

N

unusual amount of. traffic, but it so happened that a

-number of large drays and street cars met and caused a serious stoppage. If such stoppages occur' frequently with the present amount of traffic, what may be expected when it is doubled or trebled, as no doubt it will be in a few years? An effort should be made to have the inter-'

- section of all important streets enlarged. With the. present amount of space very little traffic will cause a blockade, because only one vehicle can pass through at at a time, and if the right of way is held by teams pass _ ing along one of the streets, those on the-other must wait until they have passed. The two north corners o( King and Yonge streets are now occupied by old buildings which must in a very short time be taken down and new buildings erected. if improvements are made on these corners before the intersection is enlarged by the expropriation of the angles, it will be made more difficult and expensive to effect this most necessary object. 'There are a number of places in This city where the traffic will be so great in the near future that there must be continual trouble, and some effort should be made to provide a remedy, before almost insurmountable impediments are placed in the way. by the erection of costly improvements. There has not been in the past very much belief in the future greatness of this city, and consequently very little has been done to make. provision for the requirements of the future. Where everything has been so carelessly done, and we are now suffering the consequences,, one would think that some

·attempt would be made to show our belief in the futureof the city and our desire to remove obstacles from the path of our descendants As is well— known the inter-'-sections of streets in London have been enlarged with what they call circuses, which- allow of the 'free' passage

 et~P~t! these

them to strive manfully for the advancement of art in this country likewise made 'a suggestion which it -is hoped many of those present will not allow to pass their memory, viz., that there are many wealthy men in the community who could afford to buy one or two good pictures in a year to beautify their costly homes. In so doing they would receive large returns in the education in art which they and their families would derive and they would at the same time be giving great assistance to Canadian artists. If a man could not sell his pictures in his native land there was no encouragement for him to- remain and- we- would lose men which our country could.

ill	afford, to part with. ·



The east end of the curling rink has been partitioned off and set-apart for the exhibition of the pictures The space has been divided into three rooms—a large one in the center, with smaller one.s on each side The large room is spacious, and gives every opportunity (or view- -ing the pictures from different positions. In the center of the room has been placed a number of busts of' well  known men by Mr. Hamilton McCarthy. Three pictures belonging to the Marquis of Lansdowne which he kindly lent to the Academy for this Exhibition, have also' been placed near the-center-of the room. The _ arrangements, taken altogether are good for the exhibition of the pictures. The entrance to the Exhibition could not be worse, and until lately no attempt was made to inform people of its location. - When residents of the  city are unable to find the are strangers to discover its whereabouts? Some effort should be made to make the way more convenient.. 



-	A very decided improvement in the pictures exhibited is noticeable over those of the last Exhibition held here

It is very gratifying to Canadians to observe the marked -advancement which has been made by Canadian artists

in the past few years. 'It is to be hoped. that equal, if' not greater progress, will be made in the future. This

- much to be hoped improvement of art in this country can be very materially advanced if our wealthy, classes will spend some of their accumulations in" purchasing pictures by our Canadian artists. The pictures are well worth a place in any house1 and there is no necessity of buying an inferior, picture with the object of rendering assistance to artists. · more than probable that the purchaser will have received the greater benefit in' the higher ideas of life which will be acquired by hi's surrounding himself and 'family with work of art, not only

	beautiful	also in the ideas which they

ing Inspector has the power in such cases, if the provisions of the bylaw have been disregarded, to compel the pulling down of the work_and its reconstruction in proper form, but how often is this power exercised

--Not very often, if in any case, as_ the continued noncompliance with the by-law plainly shows. The by-law as it stands at present is a farce and entirely fails ot its

/

intending

within the city limits should be compelled to obtain a building permit from the building inspector be/ore commencing the work. This would insure the proper erection of buildings, and would furnish a reliable record of the number and value new buildings put up each year. We hope to see this reform carried out.





TI-I this issue we present the fifth number of CANADIAN architect BUILDER to the public. The four numbers that have alreadybeen published, we believe have not been—wanting in merit That we have not done all that we could wish, we are free to admit; but we hope that our shortcomings will be forgiven. It is our desire to make this journal

· as valuable as possible to all interested in architecture or any of the kindred branches. To that end we will be very much obliged for any suggestions with which we may be furnished We may not be able to follow all the suggestions which we may receive but they will at least give ussome idea of the lines along which we should proceed to satisfy the largest number. There are many who will find fault for the pleasure it gives them. From these people we are not at all likely to receive much advice that will be of service. There are others, however, whose opinions we would value if they

	us with them We will be	_

 would an ly favor.		exceedingly

thankful if they will take sufficient interest in us to forward theur views. The position of this journal is now assured and all that remains to be done is to increase its usefulness to such extent as we may be able to do by the experience we are gaining. Our advertising patron-..

 age is extending _and before long we will have a very complete and representative. lst of all the important

— manufacturers- and dealers in building materials As

sections of streets in London have been enlarged with what they call circuses, which allow of the free passage of vehicles into the different streets leading into these circuses The traffic in some of the streets in London is tremendous, and yet there is comparatively little stoppage in those streets. - Nearly all_the blockades in New York are- caused by the blocking of traffic at the intersection of narrow but important streets. Having this knowledge of what has occurred in large cities, and the methods adopted to correct the evil, we should make some use of their experienc; and make wise provisions for the future. If we do not, our descendants will not. thank us for our lack of foresight or indifference tn their nterests.



T

HE Royal Canadian Academy Exhibition was. formally opened by His Excellency the Governor General on Monday evening, May 7th. At nine o'clock His Excellency led by tbe Marchioness, Lady Macdonald, the Lieut-Governor of Ontario, CQI. Gzoroski and aide de camp Sheatfield, and Anson, arrived at the Grante rink where the Exhibition is being held. They were received by Mr. L. R. O'Brien, presi dent of the Academy, Mr. A. C. Hutchinson and Mr. A Patterson, and conducted to the platform, when the pro ceeding were commenced. . The President welcomed the distinguished visitors in a few well chosen sentences and then proceeded- to speak on the progress of art— in this country. He regretted deeply the difficulty of arousing in the people any sentiment in favor of art; but hoped that the time was not distant when tbe influence of the Academy and of its members would be apparent in a higher appreciation and knowledgeof art by our people. The Hon. G.W. Ross welcomedthe GovernorGeneral on behalf of the Ontario Government He acknowledged the debt of gratitude be was under to. His Excellency Lor the advice and assistance he had given

bim in the making of the necessary arrangements to

· teach art in the schools tbe result being that where

· few years ago are was not taught in the schools, it is now taught to many thousands, and " advanced'2 and "still further advanced" art at that. The Hon. Mr. Ross also congratulated the- members of the Academy on the great excellence of the Exhibition.

purchaser will have received The greater benefit in the -higher ideas of life which will be acquired by his surrounding himself ana family with work of art, not only beautiful in themselves, but also in tbe ideas which they suggest. There are very many costly houses in this city which have not upon theli: walls one single picture worthy of a place in tbe bumblest cottage. Let us hope tbat this number will be reduced. Tbe influence of an exhibition of good paintings must be very good who even for a few moments view a good work must see the great difference between it and that which meets their eyes every day within their houses. - If they have any higher feelings it must cause tbem to strive to obtain

that which they admire most. And in this is the great benefit of art exhibitions to the people. They are given opportunities to see good work, and the effect must be more than temporary.



-	We think would be very good thing if the exhibi tion of paintings were thrown open to two evenings. \Ve do not believe that this would result in any loss, but rathei the opposite Even presuming that there should be a small loss, it would be more than counterbalance by tbe instruction gained by the public. It is true that these Exhibitions must be managed in such a way as to obtain money; but at the same time they should be made to serve educational purposes.. ,The higher our people as a .body are educated in the now ledge of art, thegreater will be the progress of art. We certainly are not too highly educated in aesthetics; a little more or even a large amount of instruction in this direction will notadvance us beyond safe bounds. Then lee everything in reason be done wbich will advance us as a people in the, love of' the beautiful. That this Exhibition and Art Fair may result in educating the people -as well as in a- large financial balance is the hope of everyone

