<doctype type="text">May, 1888

Sectional Boiler for Heating Purposes.

<article title=" Sectional Boiler for Heating Purposes " author="">

No. 28,775 George Gue Toronto, Ont., dated 27th March,  1888 

Claim,- 1st A boiler having two sides formed of a series of holtor compartments properly jointed together, each compartment forming a head for a series of tubes, which are screwed into.

 or otherwise fixed to the compartments and arranged in relation to the firepot in such a manner that, while connecting the compartmonths forming the sides of the furnace, the expansion and con

·	traction of the tubes will not twist or injuriously affect the cornpartments forming the said sides substantially as and for the purpose specified. and. The compartments A arranged one above the other and connected by water-legs G. the joints between the compartments being formed on their outer edges so as to have a space between each compartment. substantially as and for the purpose specified. 3rd. The compartments A arranged one above

~the~Aer'and connected by water-legs G, in combination with the tubes D each connected at one end with one of the compartments, and plugged or otherwise closed at its other end, a horizontal par.

·	tition J,. with an opening K through it, being placed in each tube, substantially as and for the purpose specified. 5th, The compartments A arranged one above the other and connected by water legs G in combination with the tubes D. each connected at one end with one of the compartments and plugged or otherwise closed at its other end, tubes I, arranged to connect the compact. ments with a water-leg H, substantially as and for the purpose

the dome, and so placed as to coincide with the apertures in the dome, and which rim may be moved sidewise by rod of lever for the contraction or enlargement of said apertures, as set forth 4th A dual radiator for a warni air furnace, constructed so that the active heat will pass from the combustion dome into, and circulate around the upper portion thereof, thence passing down suitable pipes into, and circulate around the lower section thereof thence passing out into the smoke-pipe, from which it is carded to the the chimney. as specified and described. 5th: A cold air receiver

 for-a-warm-air furnace,- constructed ted partly around the outer side of the base of the furnace casing, for receiving arid distributing the cold air to the warm air chamber inside of the furnace casing, as set forth, 6th. An air pipe for a warm air furnace. connecting the cold air receiver with one or more of the warm air pipes, for the-purpose of supplying cooler air to the apartments of the building when necessary. as specified and shown. 7th. In a warm air furnace. the combination of two radiators B and C, placed horizontally one above the other and by means of stop plates N, direct draught regulator 62 junction pipes D; the active heat is made to circulate eniirely around each radator before passing out into the smoke pipe, substantially as arranged and operating as set forth, 8th In a warm air furnace, the combination of the combustion dome A, fire pot L, grate K2 ash pan K, dust pipe E, with check damper et substantially as arranged and operating as set forth. 9th. In a warm air furnace, the combination of the cold air box H. with regulating slide Al, cold air receiver G, cold air pipe P, warm air chamber 3 and warm air pipes H1, substantially as arranged and operating as set forth.

Grand Lock.

++++++++++++++++

No.	28.573. The Peterborough lock Manufacturing Company, (assignee of Charles S. Osgood), Peierborough, Ont., dated 22nd March, 1888

C/aim.— 1st. The combination, with a latch-bolt, of a pivoted' lever having its short ann in contact with the latch-bolt, with its long arm arranged to support a vertically adjusted weight substanciallyas and for the purpose specified. 2nd, The combination, with a latch-bolt, of pivoted lever having its short ann in

lug bIIII  and inserted through keyholes e, partly coyered by the latch bolt B, locking cams F, F, guided in a race gI gI gII gIII, and having heads fI and shoulder fII and adapted to be operated by a key, the headf adapted to shut between the post at, acid the rear shoulder of the projecting latch bolt, substantially as set forth 2nd. In a combined latch ard lock, the combination of the casing A, a, AI, having the post at and pin BI, the latch bolt B, having a central slop A, eyes Ar, latchheads Art, recesses bIII .and lugs bIIII , hung eccentrically upon the pin BI. and resting in its normal position upon the post a aI the lever D adapted to be operated by the spindle C, and operating the latch bolt- B by lags d, dc, engaging the slqt A-and lags bIIII a latch key E engaging the lug bIIII and inserted through the keyholes e partly covered by thelatch-bolt B, substantially as set forth. 3rd. In a combined latch and lock, the combination of the casing A a AI having the post aI and pin BI, the latch bolt B having a central slot 3. eyes bI latch head b17 recesses bIII and lugs A bIIII hung eccentrically upon the pin Bc, and resting in its normal position upon the post aI an operating lever acting upon the latch bolt B by a lug d, substantially as set forth. 4th. In a combined latch and lock, the combination of the casing A, a, AI, having the post aI, pin BI guides g. gI, gII,. gIII, keyhole GI, the latch bolt B, having a central slot A, eyes Ar, latch heads bII recesses bIII aud lugs bIIII hung eccentrically upon pin Br and resting in its normal position upon the post ac, an operating lever acting upon the latch bolt B by a lug d, and the' cams F Fr; -having-heads f fitting in -the recess between the post aI and the rear shoulder of the forward end of the latch head Ax r, shoulder headsfr adapted to he operated by a key and shoulders fII adapted to he engaged by the stop gII substantially as set forth.



 Ventilator in	Connection with Hot Water Heating  Apparatus.



 No.	28,640. Charles C. Longard, N. S., dated 6th March, 1888

Claim,—1st. In a device for ventilating buildings: rooms and apartments,, in connection with- hot water radiators, the construction and arrangement of the diaphram K with or_Without a nonconducting lining, the air pipes or conduits E, and the diaphragm



other parts respectively of the radiator, substantially as and for the purpose described, and. In a device for ventilating buildings,



substancially as and for the purpose specified 5th The

partments A arranged one above the other and connected by  G. in combination with the tubes D. each connected at one end with one of the compartments and plugged or otherwise closed at its other end, tubes Larranged to connect the compartments with a water-leg H. substantially as and for the purpose specified 6th. The. compartments A arranged one above the other and connected by water-legs G, in combination with the

tubes D each connected at one end with one of the compartments, and plugged or otherwise closed at its other end, and deflecting plate M. substantially as and for the purpose specified.

 Composition for Plastering and Decorating the Interior and Exterior of Walls with a Material known as--- —No. 28,719 Alfred J. Pigeon, Montreal, Que, dated 16th March,





 Claim.- A compound composed of glue. mollasses, bichromate of potassium or chrome alum, or tannic acid, glycerine, wood, straw or other fibrous pulp, clay, whitening and raw linseed oil, substantially in the proportions specified and for the purpose herein set forth.

Warm Air Furnace.



 Thomas G Wanless, Toronto, Ont., dated 22nd March, 1888 

Claim,- 1st A fire pot for a warm air furnace. consructed of

vertical sections with ribs on its inner and outer surface, for the purposes set forth. 2nd A combustion dome for a warm air furnace constructed so as to encircle e t e re pot to keep the sections thereof position and also provide an ___ _ between the com

 _ airspace between

bustion dome and fire pot said combustion dome provided with a  and near to the lower edge thereof. for admitting air which passes up through the air space between the fire pot and combustion dome. to ignite the gases rising from the burning fuel, as set forth;

neutral rim encircling the combustion dome at its lower edge with apertures equal in size and number to those in

Claim.— 1st. The combination, with a tatch-bolt, of a pivoted lever having its short arm in contact with the latch-bolt, with its

 arm arranged - vertically adjusted sub

stantially as and for the purpose specified. 2nd. The combination, with a latch-bolt, of a pivoted lever having its short arm in contact with the latch bolt its long arm arranged to support a vertically-adjusted weight and its heel in contact with the tumbler of the lock, substantially as and for the purpose specified. 3rd. The. combination, with a latch-bolt, of a pivoted lever having its short arm in contact with the latch-bolt, and its long arm arranged to support a vertically-adjustable weight, and a pivoted stop arranged to lock the weight, substantially as and for_the purpose_specified. 4th. A pivoted lever ranged to support a vertically-adjustable weight and formed so as tobe in contact with the stop-side of the tumbler of the lock, in combination with the lock-bolt formed so that its end may be adjusted against a shoulder formed on the head of the latch-bolt substantially as and for the purpose specified. 5th. A latch-bolt A pivotally connected to the pivoted hanger B. which is actuated by the tongue a, formed on the spindle-bearing. C. a projecting lip 4 formed on the bolt A. and extending close to the short arm of the lever D. in combination with the vertically. adjustable weight E. arranged to rest upon and supported by the long arm of the lever D, substancially as specified. 6th A pivoted lever I) arranged to support the vertically-adjustable weight E. and having a lip extending over the tumblerH,incombination with the said tumbler and with the lock-bolt G. arranged so that its end may be thrown against the shoulder e. formed on the head of the latch-bolt A. substantially as and for the purpose specified. 7th. A keeper I having a bevelled projection f in coinbination with a square-ended hitch-bolt, substantially as and for the purpose specified.

Combined Latch and Lock,



No. 28,766... Charles Sandford,_ William Feeney and James

- Feeney. Madoc, Ont. dated 24th March, 1888

Claim- 1st in a combined latch and lock, the combination of the casing A., a, AI, having the post aI and pin BI the latch bolt

- B having a central slot b. eyes bI latch heads bII recesses bIII and lugs bIIII hung eccentrically upon the pin BI and resting in its normal position       post aI the lever D adapted to be operated by the spindle C, and operating, the latch bolt -13 by lugs  bIII, a latch key E engaging the

 ..



 

tion and K with orwithout.a non

conducting lining, the air pipes conduits E, and the diaphragm KI between the current of fresh air and the base.     top other parts respectively of the radiator, substantially as and for the porpose described. 2nd. In a device for ventilating buildings, rooms and apartments, in connection with hot water radiators, the combination of the diaphragms K (with or without a non-conduct

-ing lining) and KI, and the air pipes E, substantially as and for -the purpose described. 3rd. In a device for ventilating buildings. rooms and apartments. in connection with hot water radiators, the combination of the diaphragms K (with or without a non-conducting lining) and KI. the air pipes E and the chambers of air spaces C and H. substantially as and for the purposes described. 4th. In a device for ventilating buildings. rooms and apartments, in connection with hot water radiators, the combination of the diaphragms K (with or without a non-conducting lining) and Kr, the air pipes E and the air chamber C. substantially as and for the purpose described. 5. In a device for ventilating buildings in connection with hot water heating- apparatus, the construction and arrangement of the diaphragm K - between the current of fresh air and the different parts of such heating apparatus, substantially as and for the purposes described, 6th. In a device for ventilating buildings. in connection with hot water heating apparatus the intervention of a shield or diaphragm between the current of fresh cold- air and ,the heating- apparatus,.. to.. protect - the water in the apparatus from freezing in consequence 01 a draught or current of cold air striking thereon, substantially as described,





HOW PAINTS ARE OBTAINED, 

EVERY quarter of the globe, says the Argonaut is ransacked  for the materials—animal. vegetable and mineral-employed in the manufacture of the colors one finds in a paint box. From - the cochineal insect is obtained the gorgeous carmines as well as the crimson, scarlet and purple lakes. Sepia is the inky fluid discharged by the cuttle fish, to render the water opaque for its own concealment when attacked. Indian yellow is from the urine of the camel. Ivory' black and bone black are made out of ivory chips. The exquisite Prussian blue is got by fusing horses' hoofs and other refuse animal matter with impure potassium, carbonate.

was discovered by an accident. In the vegetable kingdom are included the lakes, derived from roots, barks and gums. Blue. black is from the charcoal of vine stalk. Lampblack is soot from certain resinous substances. From the madder plant which grows -in Hindostan, is manufactured Turkey red Gamboge comes from the yellow sap of a tree, which the natives of Siam catch in cocoanut shells Raw stenna Is the natural earth from the neighborhood" of Sienna, Italy. · When burned t is burned sienna, Raw umber is an earth from Umbria and is also burned.

-  To these vegetable pigments may probably be added Indian ink,  champhor. The Chinese, who alone can produce it, will not reveal the secret of its composi tion Mastic- the base of the varnish so called—is from the gum of the mastic tree, indigenous to the Grecian archipelago Bister -



in the market. It is obtained from the precious lapis lazuli, and commands a fabulous price. Chinese white is sinc.  Scarlet is iodine of mercury and cinnabar, or native vermilIon, is from quicksilver ore. 



