<doctype type="text">June, 1888 - - - - .	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. 

	-	- - 7

Architecture," "Gothic and Renaissance Architecture," Smith; "Lighthouses," Stevenson, "

 n, Science of Building," Tarn ;" How to Build a House," Viollet Le Duc

"The Consulting Architect," Kerr; "Ventilation and Warming of School Buildings," Morrison. 



___ OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

	-	BUILDING FOR MR. WILSON, CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL.



This building which is to be used as a warehouse, will consist of basement 'and seven stories 61x22 feet, and will cost in the neighborhood of $70,000. , It



terra cotta. The names of the contractors are as follows: Stone, T. Barbeau; carpenter, J. Roberts; painter, Jas. Usherwood plumbing, Hughes & Stephenson.

RESIDENCE FOR REV. PROF. GREGG, TORONTO.



Residence, of Rev. Prof. Gregg, Toronto, built in 1887, on the west side of Madison Avenue, near Bloor street on a lot of 50 feet frontage. The materials used were Credit Valley grey stone, brick and tiles, with half-timbered gables and slated roof. The cellar contains laundry and furnace and fuel rooms, and the attic, three bedrooms and store closet, Cost about $5,000. W. R. Gregg, architect, Toronto,

NEW RICHMOND - STREET METHODIST CHURCH TORONTO.



This new church, which' is in course of erection on McCaul street, this city, is Romanesque in style, The dimensions of the auditorium of the church proper will be 70x83 feet ; height, 50 feet; inclined floor and crescent - shaped gallery. The roof will be

supported by four pillars. The seating Capacity will be thirteen hundred, There will be five exits from the' building; the main entrance being eleven feet wide, In rear of the church proper is a commodious lecture 



room and class room, On the ground floor is the lecture room with a seating capacity. of five hundred which can be increased to six hundred by opening folding doors communicating with the committee room. In rear of the lecture room is situated the minister's vestry, library and lavatories. On the second

-floor, which is approached by two flights of stairs six feet wide, are the church parlor, class rooms, and infant class room, the latter furnished with tiers of crescent seats, Folding doors communicate with all the rooms. The building will also be supplied with a kitchen, range, hoist and all the necessary appliances.

COMPETITION DESIGN BY "NEVIS."



 When we named the northwest corner as the position on 'which we desired to place a pro. posed house, we had in mind certain requirements in relation to the position of the rooms To meet these requirements we made the house front the south. "Nevis" has fronted his house to the east,. and we must consequently judge his plan more from his position than ours. He has placed his stairs in the northwest angle which is a good position, but his entrance door is to the northeast, and a long way back from the front, which is objectionable. The parlor has a bay window to the east, and is a very well proportioned room, The door to the ball and the sliding door connecting with the dining room, are too near the angles to be satisfactory. The dining room is too wide for its length. There is no object in having a dining room any wider than will serve its purpose, especially where economy must be studied. The serving pantry is too small make- a- very good dining room closet. The kitchen is fairly good, but we would have placed the window on the north side of kitchen to the east of the chimney, and thus secured better ventilation.  the doors are

 also too

much in the angles of the room, which prevents the wall spares being used, except beyond the swing of the doors. The porch is very well arranged, and serves its purpose admirably. It is better to have a landing out

to commence the steps at the door 



step, but such advantages must . often give way to economical ideas. One serious objection to this plan is, that there is no kitchen pantry or any

 other place for

the storage of the kitchen apparatus. The three bed rooms are of very good size and will receive the usual bedroom furniture without crowding. The doors or windows do not interfere with: the placing of the furniture. The closet to the front room is rather long and narrow, but to have placed the door in the side of the closet would have ruined the wall space in the room. The sewing room is very small, and the window should have. been to the front instead of to the north. Windows should not-be placed to the- north if it is possible to give them any other exposure. In this case a north and side exposure is shown in preference to a front and east. In our opinion it would be better to remove the south partition of this room and take in the passage. It is not absolutely necessary- to have the sewing room made strictly private, and when - to do—so makes - it of very little' use we would not make it a separate room, but make the hall sufficiently large, and use it for that purpose. This room would make a good linen room, and possibly it would be better to use it for that purpose:

RESIDENCE FOR REV. PROF. GREGG, TORONTO The bath room is too long and narrow, and the window should have been placed in the south end. - A window placed as shown in' the plan will not light the room nearly so efficiently as one placed as we recommend. An effort should be made to arrange a bath room to take the fixtures properly. It is not enough that the fixtures are in the room and can be used they should also be arranged to give an air of spaciousness and adaptability. The attic bedroom appears to be of good size on the.

plan, but we are afraid the available space in the northwest room is very small. The window lighting in this 'room is bad and should have been to the south, even though the change should affect_ the elevation. The matter of economy affects many of the suggestions we have made, and possibly the designer considered that he was bound by the limit of cost, and would not. allow himself to improve the plan through fear of exceeding the limit of cost, The elevations are. very good, and we will not offer any suggestions; besides it is more our object to criticize  material the kitchen roof is covered. If of slate or shingle, it is much too flat ; if with pitch, it is far too steep. Galvanized iron or tin would answer, but some other treatment of this roof should be adopted. The roof as shown is a bad one, and is very objectionable in elevation.

<article title=" TORONTO ART LEAGUE " author="">



TORONTO ART LEAGUE.



 The Toronto Art League is composed of a few  enthusiastic art students who spent many pleasant and profitable evenings last winter in sketching from life. The- approach of warm weather has rendered the  undesirable, As a substitute for them, a series of

Saturday afternoon

sketching parties have been arranged for. The first of these took place to the Humber last Saturday. The headquarters of the League are in the Imperial Bank building on Wellington street. The secretary is Mr.

Dawson, Union buildings	 Toronto street. Persons

artistically endowed, who are in - sympathy with the objects of the Art League, are invited to communicate with the secretary with a view to becoming members.

<article title=" THE NEED OF ORGANIZATION " author="">

 THE NEED OF ORGANIZATION.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—In the hope of arousing discussion and drawing

out practical suggestions that may be acceptable, and in the near future acted upon, I shall attempt to express my feelings on the subject of encouragement to native talent



not claim to be disinterested, but if those who are most' interested remain silent we cannot wonder at the indifference of others. This is an age of combines. It would seem indeed that, except the profession of architecture, there is no occupation, however high or, low, without its association, convention or union many further requiring examinations and registration.- These associations when making their power felt may to outsiders seem objectionable, but to their members we must acknowledge their many accomplished and possible prospective advantages. 

Why should not an architects' provincial or national association become as serviceable to its members? and if so, why should not the architects of this city at once take the, first necessary steps?

There was, some years ago, a half-hearted attempt at organization, and I, believe there now exists here a club or Guild, but without some distinct purpose or object, interest soon languishes and nothing is accomplished. In the United States, however, and in the newer and more rapidly developing sections more particularly, Architects' Institutes have within a very short time influenced legislation and molded public taste and morals, not only for their own benefit, but for the advancement of public interests, notably in drafting sanitary laws, in

the conduct of competitions, and the erection of more suitable and creditable public buildings ; the more honorable conditions having attracted the higher talent, and every architectural success is of lasting interest to the whole community.

My present purpose, though, is to urge the more selfish view, as perhaps. more stimulating to determined

action I know of no city whose architects have more cause for complaint and protest than Toronto, where for some years past the very best buildings have been entrusted to foreigners, apparently without limitation as to expenditure or bargaining for reduction of

remuneration, Is there no native 'ability if encouraged by such conditions? What about the Ottawa Parliament buildings, our Provincial University buildings, St. James' Cathedral, Osgoode Hall, etc., of. a generation ago? Surely at this later day we have a right to expect more of a national sentiment, more encouragement for Canadians and encouragement of native talent. Is it lacking because we have no corporate society or name through which. to make ourselves known, -our wants supplied or our rights respected-and- enforced? 

no foreign lawyer, doctor, or even plumber can do business here, much less secure the cream of what is going, but a-foreign architect can and does without protest. -

I venture to say that given the same opportunity, there are several Canadians capable of doing as good, and certainly as economical work, as a certain foreigner who has been allowed unlimited expenditure in our midst; and though inclined to the Reform side of politics, I cannot imagine a more unpatriotic act by any government than that daily developing in Queen's Park. Canadians in competition hampered by most_ unreasonable conditions as to cost, unremunerated after repeated attempts at the impossible, criticized and contemptuously  at the bidding of a . foreign competitor

possessed of no world-wide fame but unlimited "gall," posing, after years of intrigue, as a disinterested expert.

receiving the commission

to design and

erect as he pleases at any cost. Is it not time- to combine and insist on some adequate preparation some legal professional standing, and at least a national registration. - -

We, have the records of what has been done in. older countries the more enlivening example of our Western



FIRST FLOOR

GROUND FLOOR

