<doctype type="colophon;text">PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF 



Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers in Building Materials and Appliances.

VOL.. 1.—No. VI.	'	TORONTO, CANADA, JUNE, 1888.	'-	{ PRICE 20 CENTS

				  $2.00 PER YEAR.

Canadian Architect and Builder

	A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION	METHODS.

 PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND

MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILD.

-	ING MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

31 King Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA.



 SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BULDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.

In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for -advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month. -



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items or interest from their respective localities.







WE wish to correct an error which appeared in  connection with the report of the committee appointed to judge the designs sent in to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER competition. The name of the gentleman who won bath first prizes is " Horwood," not "Howard," as printed last month.



THE demands of advertisers upon our. space are becoming so great that we shall be obliged to increase the number of our pages, in order to do justice to our subscribers, who are entitled to a full supply of information through the various departments of the paper. It is our purpose to increase the size of the paper as occasion demands, rather than encroach upon the space. hitherto devoted to reading matter. -



A SUBSCRIBER to this journal who is a manufacturer of materials	used in new buildings, and is naturally interested in knowing- where and by whom proposed buildings are to be erected, complains that the list of permits granted for new buildings in Toronto and

- published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,  is robbed of much of its value by the fact that many of the buildings are well under construction before the permit is obtained. Other serious objections to the system

 of issuing permits after instead of before construction  begins, were pointed out in these columns last month.  It is time that the present practice should be reformed.



there was a law compelling people to build at an

If

agreed upon distance from the street line, it would give a- much improved appearance to the streets of our cities.—The petition of say two-thirds of the property owners on any street should be sufficient to cause the Council to define the distance from the street line at  which ho must be built. There, are many streets in

 



-	our Canadian cities-which are, ruined in appearance by

 some of the houses, being built close to the sidewalk

 line. At present if a man builds some distance back

from the street he takes the chance of having his neighbor erect a building further forward than his own, and of finding himself thus entirely shut off from the street except the small portion directly in front of his house. With such a regulation as we suggest, a line of trees

—could- be planted inside the fence as well as on the street, and the increased shade thus afforded would be of much value. House owners would also be enabled to use the lawns in front of their dwellings without the uncomfortable feeling that they were under the scrutiny of their neighbors and of the public.





O

UR Pacific coast contemporary, the California Architect, is waging war against the lumber rings through whose operations it says the price of lumber is much higher than it would be if the demand governed the price. Our contemporary shows that building operations in San Francisco will fall far short of former years owing to the impossibility of getting lumber at a fair value.

The Architect would very much like to see the import— duty removed, which would allow supplies of British Columbia lumber to be brought into California and sold in competition with stocks held by the lumber "trusts."



I

T is satisfactory to know that the railway companies have at last signified their purpose of placing guards at the crossings of the principal streets leading. to the boat landings on the Toronto Esplanade. It may reasonably be assumed that had this action been taken five years ago, many lives lost during this period would have been preserved. It would seem that anything like a comprehensive scheme for the improvement of the Esplanade is still far distant, although it is a matter that demands immediate attention, and the neglect of which must lead to increased difficulties in the way of the ultimate accomplishment of the desired object.





It is satisfactory to learn that an understanding has been arrived at between the Master Plasterers and their employees it this city, by which it is hoped the

- question of wages may-be-- considered settled until April of next year. ' It now seems reason ably certain that the' present building season in Toronto will be allowed to pass without a strike, and it is well in the general interest that such is the case. The amount of building in progress, owing principally no doubt—to- the scarcity— of

money, and the difficulty of obtaining loans, is far short of anticipations. ' We are informed that many workmen are walking about' the city unable to get employment. Speculative building has been very, much reduced in extent, and the few large structures in course of erection have only as yet reached the stage where employment can be given to stone cutters, masons and laborers. Under such conditions, workmen will consult their own interests as well as the general 'good by being reasonable in their demands. ' 



A LTHOUGH there are generally more men to do the work that offers than are required, there are

nevermore capable men than can find employment. While low down there is always a crowd and much struggling for positions, high up there is room, although not for the lazy or incapable. It is a very rare thing indeed to come across a foreman of any of the building trades

who is as good a man as he should be. He may be a good mechanic, and yet unable to take the position of foreman through his ability to control men or understand the plans furnished him for his guidance. A man

who can understand plans and yet is not a first class workman does not make a good foreman once in ten

times. Our advice to the young apprentice is,- that he  should make up his mind to become at least a- first-class

foreman. If he does, and works hard, he will secure wages that he can never obtain as an indifferent

- mechanic, though he should' have a dozen trade unions at his back. . There is room at the top for good men as foremen, with the accompanying results in the shape of large wages.-' 



We note with pleasure that at an enthusiastic meeting held in Kingston a few days ago, it was

decided to attempt the establishment 'of a School of Practical Science and Agriculture. The projectors of the undertaking state that the school it is proposed to found will not make skilled mechanics- of those who at- -tend it—it is not proposed to do so—but it will give their education a practical trend; it will give them an understanding of the nature of. woods and metals and their properties, and an expertness with tools which will insure them a rapid promotion in the workshops; it will contribute to their expertness, and secure for them, as -journeymen, a remuneration befitting their efficiency. They further state their belief that the need of the hour

- is the spread of practical information, such information as can be obtained only in a technical hall. It was remarked as a lamentable fact that the education given in the public schools was not -practical enough. It tended to the professions ; something was needed to train young men for other callings. We hope that success will crown this laudable undertaking, and that the youth of Canada' will no longer require to go beyond the bounds of their own country to obtain the technical knowledge necessary to fit them for success in mechanical pursuits.



W

 E see it stated that' Mr. Percy Wood, the designer of the Brant monument at Brantford,

Ont., is at work on a sculptured monument which it is  proposed to erect at Ottawa to commemorate the suppression of the Northwest rebellion. Mr. Wood resides in England, and is no doubt a clever artist . Without wishing to say anything in disparagement of him, we desire, however, to express our unhesitating opinion that there is no reason why work of this kind should 'be' given to a foreigner over the' heads of our native artists, and without giving the latter an opportunity of showing what they are capable of doing. The same may with as much truth be said of architectural designing. If the people of Canada, and especially those who-have-the bestowal of- patronage of this kind, desire or expect to see this country make satisfactory progress in art, they must display more loyalty toward native talent. If this course be not taken,- and it be comes apparent that all the prizes worth having are handed over to foreigners, we shall not be able to retain in this country artists of first-class ability. Such a result would before many years react upon the progress and prosperity of the Dominion, and indirectly at last upon  conduct had brought it about. Let us give every encouragement to -the development of Canadian ambition and talent, and -thereby assist in making this country the pride of Canadians. 





The newspaper accounts of the disastrous conflagration which' took place a few days ago at Hull,

P.	Q., reveal a state of things by no means creditable to the residents of that unfortunate city. Two scourgings

should have been sufficient to teach the people of Hull

that . a city constructed largely of wood requires the most perfect fire-protecting apparatus, and above all, a fire brigade 'thoroughly equipped and trained to act promptly and' intelligently when the emergency demands.

