<doctype type="text">10 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER July, 1888

 <article title="Contracts" author="">Contracts

 

Architects, Engineers, Builders, Owners and others are invited to send



tion in this department. Please state location, character and coss, and names of person or persons controlling the work.



 Baner, N. W. T. A new Presbyterian church is to be erected here.

Lochate, Que. - J. C. Willson & Co. will erect a pulp mill

 Lindsay, Ont. Tenders for- the new post office are being asked for.- — Wallaceburg, ONT.—A $15,000 bridge is to be built over

the Sydenham here. 

- Galt, ONT.—$7.000 will be expended this year in improvements on the United Presbyterian church.

Lakefield, ONT.—On July, 24th the villagers will vote upon a by-law to provide for a system of waterworks.

Kingston, Ont. Mr. Page, Government engineer, will select a site for the proposed new dry dock in this city.

Hochelaga, Que. The works of the Canadian Pacific Railway Co. are to be enlarged at an expenditure of $300,000.

Windsor, ONT.—The Windsor Council has voted to issue

$25,000 in debentures for the erection of a new High School.

- Boddeck, C. B. Tenders are wanted up to 15th August for a

Court House building. Address J. L. Bethme Beddeck, C, B.



Calgary, N. W. T.—A by-law-- will-be- submitted to the- citizens July 28th to expend $6.000 on sidewalks and drainage.

Vancouver, B. C.—Plans have been prepared for a $50,000

opera house to be erected here by Mr. VanHorne, of the C. P. R.

- Pembroke, Ont. The Town Council is considering the subject of constructing a waterworks system at a cost of about

$60.000.

St. Thomas, ONT.—The Council will borrow $30.000 for general improvements, and $2,000 for additional school accommodation.

 Peterboro, Ont. It is proposed to spend $30,000 for a new Collegiate Institute.—The G. T. R. Company will erect a grain elevator here.

Shelburne, Ont. A by-law for $20.000 will be submitted to the ratepayers of this place to secure a system of waterworks for fire protection and domestic purposes.

 

Brantford, ONT.—There is talk of erecting a new armory to

cost about $25.000.—A building for the headquarters of the city waterworks department is projected, to cost $8,000.

 LONDON, ONT.—Plans are being prepared for additions to the

Machine for Raising Panels for Doors, etc.



No. 28.8444. George Dixon, St. Thomas. Ont., dated 10th April, 1888. 



Fig. 3 



Fig. 4



Claim.—1st. The combination of the cutters K, K and the collars e, e, e, e, substantially as and for the purposes hereinbefore  set forth. 2nd. The combination of the bridg B and the guides a, a. substantially as and for the purposes hereinbefore set forth.

Devices for Operating Street Water Cocks



No. 28,852. Frank Moses Toronto, Ont., dated- 10th April



1888.

to dampness is due to its power of absorbing and assimilating



water the more water being absorbed the harder the cement gets.

In the quick-setting cement, this absorption takes place so rapidly that the outside layers only of cement of concrete attain their full degree of hardness, while the interior portion cannot undergo a uniform process of saturation hence, a want of homogenousness in the mass of concrete, and a consequent want of stability in the structures in which they are used. in a slow-setting cement this process of absorption is slower, but more uniform, and although it'. stands at a disadvantage in this one sense, tbe ultimate results obtained are generally more satisfactory. - 

As a rule quick setting cements should be avoided, except in' light buildings and structures not subject, to heavy strains; while moderately slow setting cements thoroughly well-ground- and mixed, should be used in the foundations of heavy buildings, abutments for bridges, and all structures generally which are intended to stand heavy strains, ' 

A thoroughly good and sound cement as a rule, will combine these various qualities to a moderate extent, and in this class may be mentioued such cements as Brook's Shoobridge's, Knight, Beven & Sturges', the Nine Elms brand and the Atlas brandof the Union Cement Co., lately placed upon this market by Messrs. T. McRae & Co., of Ottawa. 

German cements and second grade English brands, such as Wallsend & Johnton's give very satisfactory results in tests made aftera short period of immersion in water but prolonged exposure  to the action of air and water does not materially increase their power of resistance to severe tests, and their use will eventually be come more and more restricted as the class of works undertaken by our builders become more and more high class:

Some Canadian cements are becoming quite popular for certain purposes, but the native clay used in their manufacture does not appear to contain the necessary ingredients to make them stand high tests, and until this defect is remedied, they will scarcely be able to take the place of foreign cements.' Advocating their use in such cases as that of the proposed King street subway for instance, where great strains and the effects of repeated vibrations due to the passage of trains will have to be withstood, is possibly a rash proceeding and certainly one of well intended but misunderstood economy.

	L.	BACQUE.	—

School of Bridges and Roads, Paris,



<article title="Manufacturing and Materials " author="">Manufacturing and Materials



<article title="Notice to Contractors" author="">NOTICE TO CONTRACTORS. 



TENDERS will be received by registered post, addressed to the

-	Chairman of the Committee on Works, up to 2 o'clock p. m. of the 24th day of July, for the'



KING STREET SUBWAY MASONRY AND EXCAVATION

Specifications and forms of tender can be obtained at the City Engineer's office, on and after the 17th instant. Copies of drawings may also be obtained on payment of $5,000, which will be returned on receipt of a bona fide tender.. 

A deposit in the form of a marked cheque, payable to the order



++++++++++++++++



the ratepayers of this place to secure a. system of waterworks for fire protection and domestic purposes.



BRANTFORD, ONT.—There is talk oferectinga new armory to

cost about $25.000.—A building for the headquarters of the city waterworks department is projected, to cost $8,000:

LONDON. ONT.—Plans are being prepared for additions to the insane asylum building to cost $15,000. An effort is being made to induce the Grand Trunk Railway Co. to rebuild the car shops in this city.

HAMILTON, ONT.—The city authorities have applied to the Marine Department for permission to lay a conduct pipe of 600 feet along the Burlington Beach, and into deep water in order to supply the filtering basin.

WEST Toronto JUNCTION—A new Presbyterian church with a seating capacity of 800, will be built this summer. —A by-law will be submitted to the people asking them to vote money for the establishing of a system of waterworks.

Sarnia, ONT.—Improvements to coat from $10,000 to $14,000 will be made to the high school. Besides a new addition, the' building will be heated throughout with steam. Mr. S. H. Townshend architect,- of Toronto, has been entrusted with the work.—A new separate school building is to be erected at this place.



HULL, Que. Two Catholic churches will be built on the site of the one recently destroyed ,by fire.—This city will be a good spot for builders for some time to come, as it is expected that fully half a million dollars worth of new structures will be commenced shortly. These will include a Catholic church to cost $160,000, a convent, new city hall, etc.

TORONTO, ONT.—The City Council will issue debentures to the amount of $147,775 for the purpose of providing additional accommodation and increasing the efficiency of the public schools and for improvements to the Collegiate Institute.—A movement is on foot to enlarge the Trinity College buildings.—Some new buildings will be erected on Exhibition grounds.—The following permits have been issued from the City Commissioner's office during the past month. J. RadIoed, 2 storey and attic bk, dwelling, Elm Ave., Rosedale, cost $7,000; G. C. Roach, 3 storey bk. store and dwelling, John street, cost $3,400: Thos. McCrossan, three a storey and mansard bk. stores, Agnes St., cost $4,600; W. Hughes. pair s. d. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings, Simcoc St., cost $5,000; Chas. McCabe, pr. s. d. a storey and attic bk. dwellings. cost $8,000; B. Pearsall, pa. s.d. r, c, dwellings, Berkeley St., cost $3.000 Hon. John O'Donohue, add. storey and man-sard, Adelaide and Church sts., cost $5,000: C. Dorsey, pr. all. 3 storey bk, stores, cost $7,000: W. McBean, ten bk. houses, ManDing Ave. and Lennox sts., cost $30,000; Mr. Schubart, 2 Store)'

and attic bk. dwelling.' Sussex Ave., cost $3,500; A W. Godson three att. 3' sborey bk. stores, Queen st., west, cost $8,000; Elvidge & Milligan, twy pairs s. d. a storey and attic bk. dwell. ings, Manning Ave., cost $8,000 T. P. O,Callagan bk. house,

	Sutton	E. H. Duggan,	and attic dwell

ing, Wilcon st., cost $5,000; Jas. Harved, 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings, Huron st., cost $6,000; Geo. Davis, pr. s. d. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings. Hayden st. cost $3,400; Toronto Club, 3 storey bk. club house, corner York and Wellington streets, cost

Claim - 1st. In a device for operating street water cocks, the combination, with the stop cock and water pipes, of a rod in rigid connection with the valve, adopted- to turn therewith and extend ing therefrom to the street level, and a pipe or tube joined to the valve shell and surrounding said rod, substantially as and for the purpose specified, 2nd. The combination, with the valve shell A and spigot C, of the vertical rod E. rigidly constructed to said spigot. tube D, joined to said shell, and an-outer surrounding tube or casing K, whereby close connection is made between slop-cock and street level, for the purpose described. 3rd. The combination, with shell A. spigot C, washer c2 and nut c3, of the cap Ar, for the purpose specified.



The Toronto Pressed Brick Co. has been organized, and is making arrangements to manufacture at Milton, Ont., pressed bricks and terra cotta.

A German paper recommends a -solution of paraffine in heavy coal tar oil for the purpose of protecting walls exposed to the weather. Papered wails which showed dampness in wet weather gave no traces of it after an external coating of this preparation had been applied. One part of paraffine and two to three parts of coal tar oil is solved in a moderate heat, sufficient oil must be used to prevent the solution from becoming sticky. The vessel containing it must stand in hot water while the paint is being applied, which must be done on hot days when the bricks or stone are thoroughly dry. One coat is sufficient.





<article title="Portland Cement in the Building Trade" author="">PORTLAND CEMENT IN 'THE BUILDING TRADE. 

Toronto, June 20th, 1888.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="To Contractors" author="">

OF	late there has been a gradual and almost imperceptible tendency to use a better class of cement in the building trade.

Buildings are now of such a costly description that durability and perfect soundness in the foundations amongst the first requstes, and these qualities are only to be obtained by using firstclass cements,

There is a particular impression which is extremely erroneous,

- that a first-class cement, so called, should be quick setting and the usual mode of testing cements after a short period of immersion in water is liable to make thus- impression a popular one. It should be marked, however, that these tests can only be relied on and considered as conclusive within certain very narrow limits. It is a positive fact that two cements of very unequal quality will give very similar results with a. nine day's test for instance, while the same cements tested after a protracted, immersion in water and long exposure, will show a difference amounting to' hundreds of pounds in the tension under which they will break.



KING STREET SUBWAY MASONRY AID EXCAVATION

Specifications and forms of tender can be 'obtained at the City Engineer's office, on and after the 17th instant.. Copies of drawings may also be obtained on payment of $5.00, which will be returned on receipt of a bona fide tender.

A deposit in the form of a marked cheque, payable to the order of the City Treasurer, for the sum of 2 1/2 per cent. on the value of the work tendered for must accompany each and every tender, otherwise it will not be entertained. All tenders must bear the bona fide signature of the contractor and his sureties (see specification), or they will be ruled out as informal. ' 

The Committee do not bind themselves to accept the lowest or any tender.

WM. CARLYLE,

Chairman Corn, on Works.



Committee Room, Toronto,

July 10th, 1888.





TO CONTRACTORS.



 SEALED 'renders, addressed to the undersigned, endorsed  "Tenders for Works," will be received until noon on Monday. the 30th JULY instant, for. the construction of the following works: '

At the Asylum for Insane. London - Reconstruction of portion of main building injured by fire, new pumping engine and hydrants for fire protection and addition to the bursar's residence.

At the Asylum for Insane, Hamilton—Addition to the medical superintendent's residence and new pumping engine and pipes from engine-house.

At the Reformatory for Boys. Penetanguishene—Duplicate pump at engine-house and new water tanks.

Algoma District—Addition to registry office, Sault Ste. Marie. Thunder Bay District—Addition to lock-up, Fort William. Nipissing District—Courtroom and jail at North Bay. Rainy River District—Additions to courtroom and jailer's residence at Rat Portage.

Plans and specifications can be seen at this department and at the above public institutions and - districts, where forms of tender' can be 'procured.

The bona fide signatures of two parties who are willing to become.. securities for the due performance of the contract to be attached to each tender.

Each tender for the works at London, Hamilton, Penetanguishene and North Bay must be accompanied by an accepted bank check payable to the order of the Commissioner of Public Works for Ontario, for the sum of $500, which will be forfeited if the party tendering declines or fails to enter into a contract based upon such tender when called upon to do so.

 Where the party's tender is not accepted the check will be returned.

	The Department will not be bound to	the lowest or any

tender. 

C.	F. FRASER,

Commissioner

Department of Public Works, Ont.