<doctype type="text">imitation with plaster as the "genuine stucco," is absurd Paper car wheels would not be called imitation iron car wheels. Paper boats, pails, bottles and vessels —of all, kinds are not looked upon as imitations of materials formerly used in the construction of these articles. It is not an imitation, but a substitute, superior to the old. The advantages to the architectural effect of rooms treated in relief ornaments are many. Wealness or faultiness of construction, irregularities, lowness or two great height of ceilings, may be overcome or modi. fled by the proper disposition ol ornament in friezes, cornices, mouldings, &c. Other materials for the flat surfaces, such as leathers, velvets, Lincrusta, gain immensely by the framing of mouldings in relief. While special laws govern the colouring of varied surfaces, yet. the difficulties in the way of a successful effect, when the design is already provided, are not nearly so great as when both design and color have to be-supplied. 



<article title="Hovenden's Reply to his Critics" author="Hovenden, R.J.">MR. HOVENDEN,S REPLY TO HIS CRITIC.

88 KING ST. WEST,

Toronto, July 6, 1888.

Editor Canadian Architect and Builder 



IN your valued issu for June, I notice that I am the recipient of a castigation, as well as what purports to be some good advice, at the hands of the editor of the Painters' Magazine and Coach Painter, of New York, under the head of "Perverting Facts." Now, sir, if I were not already thoroughly well acquainted with the peculiar idiosyncracies, family heir-looms of such gentlemen as my respected New York brother of the brush, I should feel disposed to be offended at his remarks, as well as at the tone of his unsolicited advice; but I hasten to assure him that I am only amused, and as one good turn deserves another, I would respectfully advise him:

1st. Never call any man a liar, either in cold type, in writing or orally, on mere assumption, nor until you have the irrefragable proof in your possession, and not even then until after you have measured him up with a "two-foot" rule, and looked him well over in front and rear and on both sides, and made up your mind that your family will not be put to the expense of mourning.

2nd. Never write articles or criticisms on matters and men you are not thoroughly conversant with; and more  especallyavoid paints, oils, varnishes and painting2 for although you may be an adept in theuseof the paste

ers are human, and like himself. perverse. __ religiously follow, in the matter of their trade, that portion of the Episcopal service, to wit: "We have done those things which we ought not to have done, and have left undone those things which we ought to have done," &c.—which was the cause of my pointing out the resuIt, if done in the manner alluded to.

My learned brother admits_that "painters are by no

- means helpless sheep whose fleece are being torn by ravenous wolves." Unintentionally or otherwise, he has pretty accurately figured up the average painter. I have never heard their most intimate friends accuse them of "sheepishness," especially in the matter of making up bills, for which performance they rank next to the plumbers. But painters are pretty much the.same the world over—at least, all that I have come across; they are neither better nor honester on his side of the boundary line than they are in Canada, andthat is not lavishing a great deal of praise on either side.

As to architects across the line requiring to be "instructed in painting," I most respectfully beg. to fender my critic my poor services, gratis, for the task, as believe there would be a large field for missionary work —over there if the architects are as sprightly and intelligent as himself. Regarding my poor self, [have to thank-him for-admitting that I show some symptoms of being a house painter. this is indeed an unlooked-for compliment from him; and very gratifying to me after having worked at the trade for over 38 years now, having served my apprenticeship in his. city as a fresco painter, and having worked in nearly every good shop in days gone by from Portland, Maine, to New Orleans La., and from 'thence north-westward to - this city. Verily, his perspicuity is great and far reaching, and about on a par with his logic.

Yours truly,	

R.J. HOVENDEN.





<article title="Interior Decoration" author="">INTERIOR DECORATION.

-	S a good example interior decoration we may A refer to that of a sitting-room facing the southeast. ground of the wall is soft dull blue, that is blue with some green in it and of a softened raded hue, the ornamental figures being of lighter shade, the ceiling

is of still lighter blue. The frieze is-of brownish olive of

-	the same depth of shade of the- dull blue of the' main wall ground, with running scroll border in o14 reds and

olive greens separated from main wall by a redwood

Painters and kalsominers are at present in demand at Deseronto, Ont.

White paint that has become discolored may be nicely cleaned by using a little whiting in the water while wash-. ing. 

For varnishing fretwork, use white, hard spirit varnish ; it requires no size; the application is to be made in a warm room ; or fill in the grain of the wood with glue size, 

A Mr. Myer has just patented in Germany a composition for removing old varnish from objects.. It is ob

ash, one of 40 per cent. soda lye, and one of sal ammoniac (hydrochlorate of ammonia.) _. 

Three models of handrailing wreaths and tracing, cut on the "acris-cut sectional system," the invention of architect W. H. Croker, Orillia, Ont., were recently exhibited at an exhibition in Carpenters' Hall, London, England, and were awarded an extra prize.

A new material for decorative, purposes called Pearline, consists of a material, apparently tin plate, with the surface so prepared that it reflects the light in broken

- masses1 producing the effect of pearl shell. It-is used as a medium for the display of hand painting. For panels, when so treated it can be used quite effectively.

-	Oil spots on wall-paper caused by- persons leaning their heads against, walls may be removed' by making the paste of fuller's earth and. cold water and laying some gently on the surface to be cleaned, leaving it until dry, when it may be brushed off and the spot will have disappeared. It works best on plain paper, but it does not succeed so well on thoroughly colored. 

Prol. Geo. Aitchison, A. R. A., in a recent lecture on "Decoration" said: When a full oVdeep scheme of color was settled on for white should be used sparingly, like a jewel, and when a light scheme was used black had the same value, while all 'pure colors,



when employed on a white or very light ground, should

7

be pulveriied, or only light tones could be adopted.

To produce the effect of copper color, says the Painters' Magazine, take a ground color made of lead, ochre and either burnt sienna or Venetian red produc-. ing a warm buff; then get umber and burnt sienna and coat the whole work over with this, wiping on the  prominent parts, carefully softening those parts down from the centre outward, leaving no harsh lines or clean patches, but softening all over, producing a metallic effect—being copper.



+++++++++++++++++



family will not be put to the expense of mourning. 2nd. Never write articles or criticisms on matters and

men you are not thoroughly conversant with, and more

- especially avoid paints, oils, varnishes and painting, for although you may be an adept in the use of the paste pot, brush and scissors, this does not constitute you a practical pin/er by any means, or one qualified to wrestle with the intricacies of the paint and oil trade. With these few words of advice, which I recommend

to his most serious. perusal and contemplation, and which, if followed out in the same kindly spirit in which they are given, will serve to prolong his days in the land

·of the Great Republic, and allow his grey hairs to go down in peace and honor to the grave, I will proceed to consider his random charges..' He says first

"Assertion is not proof. The assumed positiveness in giving the actual proportion of sophisticated barrels to the- entire bulk supplied, excites incredulity in the speaker's honesty and sincerity." 

 I have read and re-read the above quotation from my learned brother's criticism, and have come to the conclusion, after mature- consideration, that I am a "genius," for having performed the feat of exciting his incredulity, the more especially as he -belongs to a—people who aremore celebrated for shooting wide of the target of truth than they-are-for— scoring bull's eyes. Know then, oh learned brother, that I have asserted nothing but what [ have proven time and again, and to my own satisfaction, at least. As car loads of linseed oil pass through my :hands pretty frequently, I will therefore assume with your kind permission to have a good opportunity of determining the quality of that particular class of goods, as I both sell and use them in large quantities. The " sophisticated" oil matter will therefore have to remain as a question of veracity on one side and incredulity on the other, as between my "unsophisticated" New York brother and myself; as I can't see where he has made out any case, or even succeeded in a poor attempt to

-disprove my statement.

Touching my remarks on "priming color," any painter with even a moderate knowledge of the trade will agree as to the soundness of the statement that, the "odds and ends" of a eaint shop are usually " fat," and wifl not dry hard and firm, no matter what you do with them, and make but

-	a sorry foundation for the subsequent finish; for a thorough good foundation is as necessary to the finish and wearing properties o( painting as a good foundation is constructively necessary to the stability of an edifice. His remark that " No one, of course, compels a painter to make up such a priming," may be taken as true, but he must not forget that paint

the ornamental figures being of lighter shade1 the ceiling is of still lighter blue. The frieze is of brownish olive of the same depth of shade of the dull blue of the main wall ground, with running scroll border in old reds and olive greens separated from main wall by a redwood rail. The woodwork is in a shade of red-wood somewhat fainter. The whole has a restful appearance and is aided by a carpet of peacock blue ground, showing merely as a filiet running through olives, olive green, old blue and terra cotta reds, and by light bronze brown colored shades of windows. We have noted before the importance of taking the hues of the carpet into account when decorating a - room. Where the carpet is

-	not already selected the decorator should invariably be _ consulted on the subject; if already laid will necessarily influence him in his selection of waif colors.

A northwest parlor has a wall paper in two medium shades of terra cotta pink ; the frieze which is nearly two feet deep is in two shades of bronzy old gold) a renaissance design.  In another parlor with wall space simi larly treated there is a bold floral frieze qf bronze green of continuous running pattern. The woodwork in_each is the color of natural cherry. The library has a wall ot  bronze in arabesque design, the - frieze ground dark old red, with designs in copper color ; the ceiling pale bronze brown. The woodwork the warmest shade seen in French walnut. The newels at foot of staircase and hand-rail are of peacock blue; the balusters are bonized. The woodwork of the bedroom is of a shade of bay green ; in the wall paper amber and blue figures appear on a gray green ground ; the ceiling is of a creamy hue.

A well decorated drawing-room which we lately in spected has the woodwork in peacock blue; the walls have a paper of conventionalized design in which blue predominates1 whilst the doors are painted a yellowish olive green. The ceiling has a light pinkish hue. the ceiling of the dining-room in the same house is similarly

tinted, the woodwork is of Indian red	color resembling -in appearance Japanese lacquer work_; the wall paper is an all-over pattern in shades of Indian red, the frieze a yellowish green. - Mouldings are in amber, yellow and pale shades.—Painters Magazine.



What is commonly called black lead, and used in lead

-	pencils, is not lead at all. It is a carbon formation called graphite or plumbago. In this trade it is sometimes used in oil. It produces a beautiful gray with a  metallic lustre, dries quickly, and has a good body. Chemists say that it is not injurious to other colors, and will live forever.

ing a warm buff; then get umber and burnt sienna and coat the whole work over with this, wiping on the

prominent parts, carefully softening_those parts down from the centre outward, leaving no harsh lines or clean patches, but softening all over, producing a metallic effect—being copper. 

Italian jasper is a fine marble to imitate. The painter. having prepared a drab ground, oils this, and rules in circular forms of Indian red and bright lake. With a feather dipped in turpentine veins of different tints of  orange, green, also grey, composed of white, raw sienna. Prussian blue and ivory black, are put in between these. The olive and grey tints are glazed with white, and the dark with crimson lake. The final touching up.is given_ with very thin white on a feather. 

The following are the names of the prize winners in the recent- art examinations -in - connection with the Educational Department of Ontario :—Toronto School of Art—Gold medal, dinslie Borron. Ottawa School of Art—Gold medal, certificate for drawing from antique, 0.- E. Prudhomme. Bronze medal Painting from life,

· F. Checkley. Bronze medal—Drawing from life, Carrie

H. Ross. London School of Art Silver medal Mechanical course, Win.  Ferguson. Bronze medal Primary course, Thos. Elliott. Morrisburg High School

—Bronze medal—Primary course, Allen C. Smith.

·The wide, shallow stairways that we are glad to say are slowly but surely superseding the breakneck flights to be found in all unpretentious houses afford the most delightful scope to those who are capable of makingthe most of the chances opened up to them. If there is a window on the first landingit should be cut low and a narrow divan placed in front of it, that one may take a breathing-spell by the way. An old eight day clock may



not so fortunate as to own a clock of this description, a potted palm will look welt. The opposite corner might have a large bracket holding a rather tall figure in a graceful posture. That of the celebrated disethrower would be admirable. A few well chosen pictures are hung at wide intervals along the, whole ascent by people of unquestionable taste and judgment.



Herr Schick at Jerusalem has just lighted upon a sup-. posed ditch of the long-contested second wall of the city,

and has made other	discoveries with reference to Con

stantine's Church	which will compel a rewriting of the

guide books. The French school at Mantiner has discovered a large circular building of the Roman period, with Br coins and inscribed terra-cotta tablets representing theatre tickets,

