<doctype type="colophon;text">PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers in Building Materials and Appliances.

			PRICE 20 CENTS

VOL 1.—No VII.	TORONTO,	CANADA, JULY, 1888.	$2.00 Per YEAR.

Canadian Architect and Builder

·A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION METHODS,

 PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUM.

BERS, DEORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND

MANUFACTURERS OFAND DEALERS IN BUILD.

ING MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



 C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher, 31 King Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA.

 SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address

in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per, year. The price to sub. scribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for,

if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all of address give the old as wellas the new address.



Failure to receive the paper	promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





WE are surprised to learn that an Ottawa firm,

 Messrs. A. K. Miles & Son, has been given the_ contract for the pedestal of the statue to be erected in Major Hill Park to the memory of Ottawa volunteers



who fell in the Northwest. It is a wonder that this contract, like that for the statue itself, was not awarded to a

foreigner.	____________________







THE majority,- probably, of the large buildings in  Canadian cities are without elevators, and a few visits to offices situated on second or third floors is sufficient to make one feel fatigued during the balance of the day. Not only are the elevatois too few and far between, but where they are to be found they are ad

-justed to move at	snail's pace. Elevators of smaller size and greater speed would fulfil public requirements much more satisfactorily than those at present in use.



THE attention of contractors is directed to the advertisement on another page of the Court House Committee of tte Toronto City Council asking tenders for the various works required in connection with the trection of the new Court House and City- Hall. We-. are pleased to see that a definite move has been made in this matter, and trust that the figures contained in the tenders will not aggregate an amount which will preclude the advisability of proceeding with the immediate construction of the buildings.



THE Superior Court Judge has granted an injunction with restraining the County Judge from proceeding ____ the enquiry in the case of A. W. Godson, the Toronto contractor. His Lordship decides, and we think the decision a most equitable one, that before the

City Council	_________

can proceed to order an; enquiry into the conduct, of an individual, it must; prefer against him

 definite- charges of wrong-doing.	Before ordering an

expensive enquiry to be	commenced, the Council. should.

have taken the precaution to ascertain that its proposed action was legal. The citizens should not be called upon so frequently to pay the cost of such mistakes.' Enough has'   been made public since the investigation commenced to render it desirable that the facts relating

















to the dealings of Lackie and Godson with the corporation and with each other, should be laid bare. There is a suspicion in some quarters that the interests of the city are sacrificed by some of its well-paid servants in behalf of contractors. If such be the case, the evil cannot too soon be exposed and remedied. Let the Council go about the work in a legal manner, however, and not waste public money in blundering. 



As stated by one of our correspondents last month, a company has been formed at Owen Sound for the manufacture of Portland cement, the necessary materials it is said having been found to exist in that locality, and successful experiments having been made. Assuming that we are correctly informed, this is an important discovery, and the company that has been formed to take advantage of it, will doubtless find the enterprise highly remunerative. Many thousands of barrels



·of Portland cement are consumed in Canada each year, the profits on the sale of which go into the pockets of foreign manufacturers. - Should. the discovery at Owen Sound fulfil the expectations of those engaged in conducting it, this money will be kept in the country, and anew and important Canadian industry will be develop. ed.



T

HE report reaches us from London, Ont., that the stained glass windows for the sanctuary and transept of St. Peter's Cathedral have been purchased by Bishop Walsh in England. THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER wishes to enter an emphatic protest against the unpatriotic conduct of those who purchase in foreign 'markets articles that are produced in equal quality in Canada. We believe we are within the mark when we say that there are manufacturers of stained glass in Canada who are producing an article as perfect in every way as can be bought in Europe. Then, why purchase in Europe? Why did not Bishop Walsh go to Europe for the money to build St. Peter's Cathedral? As long as Canadians are asked to contribute the money for the erection of such structures, the labor and material used in their construction should be Canadian,. provided the quality of the native article is equal to' that of the

	imported.	______________________







THE selfishness of human nature has been well



 illustrated by the conduct of the people of this city who have continued to make extravagant use of the city water during the summer months for several years past

in the faceof the fact that they were knowingly assisting to reduce the water supply to a 'degree which threatened to result in famine and alarming' danger from fire to their own property and that of their neighbors. The City Council has wisely passed a by-law limiting the use of lawn sprinklers to certain hours of the day and evening. In the past these lawn sprinklers have in hundreds of instances been allowed to operate night and day. The

-	next move on the part of the civic authorities should be to increase the city water supply, which is evidently insufficient for the requirements of this- populous and rapidly growing city. the proposition to establish a second pumping station and reservoir in the west end of the city is one which we hope to. see carried out.



W

 E are informed that last. year Canada imported— more than a quarter of a million dollars worth of wall paper. About four-fifths of our total importations in this line came from the United States. This large importation would seem to show that there is considerable room for expansion and improvement on the Part of Canadian wall paper manufacturers; of-whom 'here are three, two in Montreal and one in Toronto. To a representative of the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER, one of the Montreal manufacturers recently stated that owing to American competition, the profits of the Canadian manufacturer were barely sufficient to. en able him to keep his factory in operation. Seeing that.

American manufacturers- are- compelled to pay a duty which is equal to a fair profit before they can place their goods on the Canadian market, we fail to see why our home manufacturers should not hold their own and even supplant the bulk of the imported hangings by native goods. We don't tilt to hear men complain that they can't hold their own wh the advantage seems on their side. —We hope that the capital, intelligence and energy necessary to secure the Canadian market for the Canadian manufacturer will be forthcoming.





PUBLIC opinion has been awakened to a satisfactory degree of late concerning the vat e of.

sanitary measures for the prevention of the spread Infectious disease. The provincial and local Boards of Health have done a good work in this direction. No. better evidence is wanted of the change which has taken place in public opinion on the subject of sanitation, than the fact reported in the daily papers recently; that a physician in one of our cities had been fined by the. police magistrate for neglecting to notify the Medical Health Officer—of a-case of diphtheria. It is well that the offender in this instance, being a physician and knowing full well the danger, but neglecting to give the  warning, should be made an example of, so that no attempt will in future be made, either for the sake of convenience or other reasons, to conceal the existence in a community of infectious- disease.



W

E have just read the list of duties which the Building Inspector for the Toronto School Board will be expected to perform. They are not few nor easy. In fact they are so many and difficult that no one man will be able- to perform them. The School Board should have advertised for an architect instead of a building inspector. All plans and specifications for all new buildings are to be prepared by the newly appointed "Superintendent." While the buildings which have been built have not by any means been what they should be, we may reasonably expect that those constructed in the future will be even more inferior. When men who are supposed to have had some little training as architects have done so badly, it is not to be expected that a man who has had none, or practically none, will be able to do as well. We are utterly unable to understand how it is that nearly all public offices are filled by men without. any qualification for their duties. -That  the appointee to this office might have made a fairly

-	good superintendent is possible; that he will make a good architect is extremely improbable. The main thing _ to'be regretted 'is that a wrong commencement has been made. If there is to be an architect's office with its staff, as there must be if one half of the work laid' down is to be performed, it should be efficient, which can never be under its present head.

'- 





like to see a larger number



adian Acader Art Exhibition. that there are not -'more does not reflect very much credit 'on Canadian





would be more drawings sent 'in by architects if they

