<doctype type="text"> —  - JULY, 1888 -

which service to the dining room can be had, but that alone is of small benefit. It also means that two servants must be kept if anything is to be gained by this

arrangement ; and we fancy that any one who is able

·'to keep two servants would not care to live in a' house if built according to this design. There is a small inside closet in the kitchen and that is all; the pantry accommodation is therefore exceedingly limited. The kitchen

is so badly cut up with doors and windows it would

 

serve its purpose very indifferently. A kitchen door should always' be protected by a porch. On the first

floor there are four very good bedrooms, three of which have closets. We do not approve of the recession what-

 ever it may be called out of the first bedroom. This space could be used to much better advantage by rearranging the plan and bringing the west center bedroom forward o the first. The bath room is fairly good,

__	and has the proper exposure. The basin seems to have been reduced in size to allow of its being set in the angle of the break in the partitions. If the scale of the w. c. and bath is correct, this basin cannot be more  than 6 inches in diameter. The piazza is nicely arranged

, and of value.	__

We are much better pleased with the elevation than with the plan. It is very simple, and, generally speaking, satisfactory. The roof is perfectly simple and the' possibility of leaks is reduced to a minimum. The windows to the staircase on both floors are in rather impossible and inconvenient positions. We would. advise. the author of this plan to study out his plans more carefully. Good elevations will not remedy a bad or inferior plan. He apparently has devoted more thought to his elevations than to his plans, and in so doing has made a  very great mistake.

MECHANICS' INSTITUTE BUILDING, MONTREAL, QUE.

—JAMES WRIGHT, ARCHITECT.



SPECIMENS OF DRAWING AND DESIGN BY PUPILS OF

· ONTARIO ART SCHOOLS.





<article title="The New Parliament Buildings" author="">THE NEW PARLIAMENT BUILDINGS.

If the lithographic print which is for sale in the

		all

due allowance for the badness of the lithograph, of the  new Parliament and Departmental Buildings which are now being erected in the park, the question must be asked, why did the Government take the work out of the hands



of Canadian architects and give it to a foreigner? The design of this building is so wretchedly bad in. the com

acts most patriotically, but it is only the man who is patriotic

in his deeds who is trusty loyal.





<article title="Instruction in Architecture" author="">INSTRUCTION IN' ARCHITECTURE.

J F the Minister of Education carries out his intention of appointing a lecturer on' Architecture in the School—:

of Technology, will have made a long step forward for the advancement of architecture in this country

—not that we are so deficient in architectural ability as

-some of our would-be architectural critics would have us believe. If this kind of art is placed on the curriculum of the school, every care should be taken to have it 'most thoroughly taught by experienced lecturers. We would suggest that at the commencement the course should not be too long, but that it should be made to give architectural students a first-class primary training in construction, the science and history of architecture. It is as impossible to make an architect in a college, as it would be to make a competent seaman and navigator by a theoretical course at a school miles from the sea. The profession will gain immensely by having only educated men units ranks, and if all are not good architects, they will at least have sufficient training to know good from—bad - work.— - There— are so many untrained men in the ranks of the architects, and the public are so unable to judge good architecture from bad, that the few good men receive but little recognition, and that only from the cultured few. We should think that some arrangement might be made with the architects now practicing to receive into their offices students from the School of Architecture in preference to non-attendants. 'By this means the profession would- feel the benefit of the school, and the students would have the advantage of having all openings for students in architects' offices kept for them in preference to others.



<article title="Toronto Architectural Guild" author="">TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL GUILD.

 The monthly meeting- of the Architectural Guild,  of Toronto, was held at Lorne Park on Thursday

afternoon. The members were most hospitably entertained by Mr. and Mrs. Burke, to whom they are very much indebted for a pleasant afternoon. Notwithstanding that the day. was decidedly one of pleasure and quiet enjoyment, there was a large amount of business transacted. There were also animated discussions on many questions of much moment to the advancement of architecture in this country. Much satisfaction was et

 Architects, Engineers Builders, Contractors and others are invited to



construction Also particulars— such as location, character, cost and name of owner, etc.—of any works of construction in Progress.

	-	<article title="Manila Hemp in Plaster" author="">Manila HEMP IN PLASTER.	-

A WELL-KNOWN firm of

Architects has for several 'years ordered

the use of manila hair in all plastering work done for its clients. In order to satisfy the doubt of some its Con tractors, they made the following experiment: The test was made with four plates of equal size, one containing.' manila hemp. a second Sisal hemp, and third jute, and a fourth plasterer's hair (goats) of the finest quality. The test  was made- 'by suspending pending weights from- the middle of each plate. the ends of which were properly supported. The result was that the plaster mixed

with goats hair broke at 144 1/2 pounds weight that with jute at 145 pounds, the Sisal at 150 pounds, and the manila at 195 pounds. It should be added that the plaster containing the manila hemp did not break, it only cracked. Though cracked in the centre, the lower half of the plate containing the manila when it was suspended, held on to the upper hall. and the manila held it fast, though the observer would almost feel confident that the hairs would break under the strain. The three other plates were broke- that is, the two parts of each plate had severed entirely,

-	in contrast with the manila plastering The architects felt that their theory had been proven correct.

Another experiment, made two years ago by a member of the same firm of architects, consisted of mixing two barrelfuls of mortar, each containing equal portions, by measure, of sharp sand and Thomaston Ume, one of the barrelfuls, however, being mixed with the proper quantity, by measure, of manila hemp, cut in lengths of 1 1/2 to 2 inches, and the other of goat's hair, the best that could be procured. After mixing thoroughly with the usual quantity of Water, the respective mixtures were put in the barrels and stored away in a dry cellar, where they were locked up. They were allowed to remain there for nine months, at the end or which time they were opened and examined. The hair mortar-crumbled and broke apart. very little of the hair being visible, showing that the lime had consumed the hair, The other, containing the hemp, however,' showed great cohesion. it being with considerable effort that it was pulled apart, the fibers of the hemp permeating the mass and giving little or no evidence of injury done to it by the lime. Manufacturers and Builders. '- 



+++++++++++++++++++



I stationary stores  is a fair representation, making all due allowance for the badness of the lithograph, of the

new Parliament and Departmental Buildings which are nowbeing erected in the park) the question must be asked, why did the Government take the work out of the hands of Canadian architects and give it to a foreigner? The design of this building is so wretchedly bad in the composition that no possible beauty of detail or profuseness of carving can redeem it, granting that the mtnd which could design such a weak and inartistic composition will be able to give us good work in individual parts, and in

—	the detail.—--] t- is- now about two years since this work was commenced, and yet- the Government have not thought it wise to inform the public as. to the description of the building in the erection of which they will be obliged to spend at least two millions of dollars, If the building is anything like the lithograph, we can easily understand why they have not had authentic cuts of the elevations and perspectives made and distributed for the information of those who have to foot the cost. Nor

T	have they, so far as we are aware, placed the elevations or perspectives where they can be seen by the few. We should be only too glad to publish among our illustrations representations of the building or its parts if we -were supplied with the drawings. Now that there is a lithograph published which represents the building as one that will, tf erected according the design thus shown, be one of the ugliest and most inartistic buildings erected on this continent, or for that matter, any other continent, during the past ten years, the Government should see that an authoritative cut of the building is published.'

It is only afew days ago that we saw the perspective drawing of the design submitted by Messrs. Darling & -Curry, and were obliged to admire the beauty of the composition as a whole, as well—- as of the

 'individual parts.' One of the lithographic prints was

-	placed alongside of this drawing, and making all due allowance as between the pictures, one might be said to represent Day, the other Night. That a foreign architect should be appointed to design this most important

 building in preference to a Canadian, is bad enough, but that a good design by Canadians should be cast aside, and a building erected according to such an inferior one by a foreigner, is worthy of the strongest condemnation. Until Canadians believe in 'themselves, there will never be any national life worth speaking of, nor will the ablest among our young men remain in their native

-	land. We have had too much talk about a Canadian national spirit, without the action necessary to bring it into vigorous life on the part of our public men and the

	press. Would it not be much better,	for a time at least,.

 to have our belief in Canada and ourselves shown by

much indebted for a pleasant afternoon. Notwithstanding that the day was decidedly one of pleasure and quiet enjoyment, there was a large' amount of business transacted. There were also animated discussions on many questions of much moment to the advancement of. architecture in this country. Much satisfaction was expressed with the intimation of the Minister of Education that he proposed to appoint a lecturer on architecture in the school of technology.



Architectural competitions, unless conducted upon a different and more equitable plan 'than heretofore will soon have to be abandoned, for the reason that no architect of any standing will have anything to do with them. A competition has just closed at Minneapolis.  and this is what the Northwestern Arch itect says of it :— "There has been nothing in this competition to relieve the system-from the contempt into which it has fallen among reputable architects. The merits or-demerits of.  the designs submitted had very little to do with the final decision, the fight was between the two firms that everybody knew were to struggle for it, and was merely a matter of wire pulling, and the most astute wire pullers won. Yet this is the method by which the architects of

 most of the public buildings in this country have been selected, and, although we believe the selection in this

-	case to have been a good one, we must admit it to be a bad method. Is it any wonder that a majority of our public buildings are no credit to us, that many begin 'to fall down before they are fairly up, that charges of job-'

 bery and peculation begin to accumulate as the walls go up, and that in most cases the scandal stick's.



 <article title="Personal " author="">PERSONAL.	

Messrs. Knox & Elliott, architects, late of Chicago, have opened an office at 15 Victoria street, Toronto.

Mr. F. Bourchier has purchased the business of Mr. S. C. Bums, architect and real estate agent, Victoria, B. C. 

We regret to learn that Mr. Richard C. Windeyer, architect, of this city, has lately been incapacitated for his duties by illness.

 - Mr. A. E. McCall, B. A., has resigned the position of mathematical master in the Belleville high school and has gone to Ottawa to take a civil engineer's course.

On the occasion of his recent marriage, Mr. W. C.. Phillips was -waited upon at his residence, 21 Grosvenor street, by the travellers, salesmen and foreman of the Cobban Manufacturing Co., Toronto, and presented with a handsome silver tea service, as a mark of esteem and regard from his

 employees. 



 The Canadian Architect and Builder received a visit last month from Mr. A P. Randall, of Seattle, W. T., who is re-visiting relatives in Ontario after an absence of fifteen years, during which period be has

resided on the Pacific coast Mr. Randall, who is a builder, is alive to the advantages to be derived from a study of the architecturals, and before leaving added to his list of such publications the Canadian Archi 

	tect AND Builder.	'	-

time they were opened and examined. The hair mortar   crumbled and broke apart, very little of the hair being visible, showing that the lime had consumed the hair, The other, containing the hemp.

however, showed great cohesion, - it being with considerable effort that it was pulled apart, the fibres of the hemp permeating the mass and giving little or no evidence of injury done to it by the lime. Manufacturer and Builder.





<article title="Roof Construction " author="">ROOF CONSTRUCTION.

IN a southern climate it is not a difficult matter to place on a building a good weather-tight roof, but in-a northern one it is almost impossible to construct a roof which will remain perfectly watertight at all seasons of the year. A roof may not allow one drop of water to penetrate during the summer months, which in winter will leak a stream. The question of watertight roofing under all conditions of climate has now become a difficult one. In the past when our houses were not heated beyond the actual liv- ing rooms and water froze in- the bedrooms, there was not. very - much trouble with leaky roofs except under very exceptionable circumstances. But now that our homes are heated with water and steam until there is not one single cubic foot of air in the entire, house which is not at 65° or more, it it the exception when a roof does not leak less or more during the winter. This occurs through the extremely high temperature of the air underneath the 'roof, as no matter what the temperature of the house may be, the attic or roof space is still higher. The result of this state of affairs is that 'the snow on the roof is melted when the temperature of the air' outside is below the freezing point, and the water melting therefrom runs down the roof until is reaches the eaves, where it is beyond the influence of the heated air of the house,' and consequently freezes, the result being that there is a ridge of ice at the-eaves of the house with long icicles hanging down from same. This ridge of ice prevents the water from the melting snow escaping off the roof except over this ridge, and as it keeps freezing it very soon has a dam sufficient to cause the water to back up under the slate and find its way down the face-of the walls, or into the house. This ice forms at many points, but more especially at the eaves in the valley and behind chimneys and dormer windows. The temporary leakage is not the only trouble, for the roof is always more or less injured by the ice. The galvanized iron gutters, valleys and flashing are often damaged to such an extent that it is necessary to have them repaired to keep out an 'ordinary, rainstorm, and very often the slate is - broken to such an extent that they must be replaced.

To overcome this difficulty it is absolutely necessary that there should be few breaks in the roof. Every gable, dormer window, or chimney but adds to the trouble, and therefore every care should be taken to design houses which can be roofed in a simple and plain. manner without unnecessary breaks, which are often put on to add.--to the design artistically, but which more often than otherwise ruin it. A broad mass of roof very often would redeem an other wise inferior design. There are far too many houses erected which

have not even one small untortured surface to rest the eye, tired in  the 'attempt to understand what all the projection- points - and

excrescences mean. Our buildings would gain very much if they



were designed with more simplicity and dignity, both artistically 

and from the strictly utilitarian point of view. ThIs trouble from -ice forming on roofs in winter can only be overcome by preventing

