<doctype type="text">	10 August, 1888

MAKING BLINDS. <article title=" MAKING BLINDS " author="Maginnis, Owen">

By—OWEN B. Maginnis. 



S there are few mechanics outside of sash and blind shops who

A -

know how to properly make a pair of outside blinds, the following description showing how to commence and carry through a job of this kind may prove useful to any one who may have a pair to make:

Having the frame stuft (generally 1 1/4 inches thick in ordinary work,) sawn to the necessary lengths and widths, the first operation is to wind the stiles in this way: Take a pair, and having marked the face, .sides and edges of each, lay one—which we will call the left stile—on the bench with the face edge (torn you and proceed to take a fore plane shaving off each top and bottom

corner on the stile as shown on the left hand side of the blind A. Do the same with the right hand stile keeping the race edge to you instead of from you like the last. When we ruts are

into these stiles the blinds will be in wind about a 1/4 inch or the top tight hand corner will hang in when the blind is hang on its hinges.

The stiles for the right hand blind are similar, or in other words, the stiles are all laced alike and can be turned end for end without altering the face marks or wind.

The reason for winding the stiles is this: When the blinds are closed the left hand blind. B from the inside touches the window frame at the bottom outside corner, and the top stick out as the frame winds, and when the right hand blind (from the outside) is

the left hand blind and draws it in against the frame and the catch at_the bottom holds the joint tightly together., making the blinds level close against the frame and a tight joint on the rebate.

When laying out the stiles for morttsing make the mortise the same width both edges, as the tenon fills it entirely, and there are no wedges used as they are liable to work loose with the constant wetting and drying of the weather. The shoulders of the rails are held to the edges of the stiles by pins driven through the mortise and tenon when the frame is in the clamps __________

Cutting the slats should be very carefully done, and one or two of them should be'- tried itt—the frame; bringing the shoulders- up with a couple of handscrews to see they work freely in the holes before pinning, and they should be placed oval and the edges properly rounded. The rods should next be cut and worked to the usual shape and the ends rounded to the same shape as the edges.

Before wiring the slats place them all together and with a try square mark the position of the staples (both points) on the poorest edges, and then drive them tn. The slats can then be fastened on the rod which is marked from the stile,, and the slats placed in the frame which is primed and cleared off.

'This is the simplest method of making blinds by hand. They are, however, usually made in factories by a much quicker process, but if there be any builder stuck for_one or even a pair_of blinds, the-above will aid him in rnaking a sure job.





RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS.

System of Water Supply.

No. 28,932. William G, Russell, Millbrook, Ont., dated 18th

April. 1888.

Claim. - 1st. The pipes A, B, C and E, connected together, as described, in combination. wtth the globe-valve F, arranged substantially as and for the purpose specified. 2nd. The pipes A, B, C and E, connected together, as described in combination with

he purpose specified. 3rd. The pipes A, B, C and E, connected together, as described, in combination with the globe valve F, rod G, and relief valve H provided with a lever I and adjustable weight J. substantially as and for the-purpose specified. 4th. The pipes A, B, C and E, connected together, as described, in combiS nation with the globe valve F. rod G. relief valve 1-1 provided with' a lever- [and adjustable weight J, and set-screws K and L, substantially as and for the purpose specified. -

Water Leakage Detector.



No. 28,899. Thomas Houlgrave, Toronto, Ont., dated 14th April, 1888. 

Claim. - 1st. The combination of two diaphragms A, A, each consisting of two sub-diaphragms a and a1 connected by a wire E,  substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 2nd. The combination of the diaphragms A, A, the connecting wire E, the tightening rod D and the centre-pin C,- substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 3rd. The combination of the diaphragms A, A, the connecting wire E and the telescope pipes F, substantially as and for the purpose set forth, 4th. The combination of the leakage detector, the slot A of the cap H, the sound uniting charmher i, the casting I, the key rod K and the cock I of the water main, substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 5th. The combination of the cap H, the casting I, the key rod K and the cock I, substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 6th. The combination of the cock J. a box L filled with sawdust, and the iron rod K, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.



The pillars used in the St. Clair tunnel wall, be made from the old G T. R. car wheels.

The Marble Dealers' Association of Rutland, Vt., at a recent meeting elected as a director Mr. G. A. Sanford, of Halifax, N.S., who has been dead for several years.

 At the Cincinnati Exposition Canada makes a fine display of terra cotta, tiles, bricks, building stone, black and colored mar.