<doctype type="text;ad">11       

<article title="Unventilated Bath Rooms" author="">UNVENTILATED BATH-ROOMS.

— An unfortunate occurence which was



lately the subject of a coroner's in

to

· remarks on the hygiene of the bath-room, with special reference to its frequent abuse when warm water is the means of ablution. About a fortnight since a gentleman aged seventy-four years was found sitting dead in a warm bath, which he had entered a short time previously. According to the medical evidence death was 'due to syncope, induced in all probability by the heat of the room. Here, doubtless a predisposing cause was also at work

—namely, the advanced age of the deceased  which would render him the more susceptibility to the always rather depressing influence of warm bathing. Add to these unfavorable, if unavoidable conditions  the presence of a stifling, steam-laden atmosphere, and we need not feel surprised at a statement by the coroner tbat deaths in similar circumstances are not uncommon; Now that almost every house of moderate rental has its bath. room the size and ventilation of the apartments are matters of some importance  There is too great a tendency to think that any odd corner may be used for this purpose, and that the first and-only necessity is to have the required watersupply laid on, and for the short time during- which the bath is used the quality of atmosphere is quite a secondary matter It should not need the teaching of a series of fatal accidents to impress an opposite principle. Clearly a room which in course of use, becomes rapidly charged with water vapor should exceed rather



than come short of the minimum cubic space (say 800 cubic feet) required for each inmate of a normally constructed house. With regard to ventilation, ancient prejudices in favor of closed doors and windows and solid walls have to be cornbated. These have, however, been pretty generally overcome in the case of sitting rooms and bed-rooms, and should not prove insuperable in the case of the bathroom  There is no necessity for the introduction of cold air from without, for a sufficiently pure atmosphere can usually be obtained from the interior of the house, and an outlet funnel with revolving cowl is all that is required for extraction of the old air and excess of water vapor.— Seeing

 therefore, that the remedies are apparent, we may hope that in future builders and householders wilt agree - to- employ them against the now too evident risks of a warm bath at home. – Lancet



BUILDING MATERIALS.

J. H. YOUNG,

-Steel Piate Warm Air Furnace

Toronto Furnace Co.

QUEENSTON CEMENT WORKS

lSAAC USHER & SON,

PETER Lyall

BUILDER AND CONTRACTOR

