<doctype type="colophon;text">PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF



Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers In Building Materials and Appliances.

VOL. 1.—No VIII.	TORONTO CANADA, AUGUST,	.	.	PRICE 20 CENTS

 . $2.00 Per YEAR.

THE



 Canadian Architect and Builder

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY - ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND



MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILD.

ING MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

31 King Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA.



 SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address

	in Canada or the United States for $2.00	per year. The price to sub-

		scriber in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in

advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; bat where no such understanding exists, it will continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all

In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address.



Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS. 

rices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for

	advertising	reach the	pa publication not later than the 12th

	day the month,	and changes of	 advertisements not later than the 5th

day of the month.



 EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS 

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward

kind to mark-- important events in the history of the -country, will exert a powerful influence on the minds of future generations of Canadians, awakening in them a pride of country which is a necessary foundation to the greatness of any nation. It is surely fitting that the designing of these national monuments should be- en-. trusted to Canadian artists, and we hope that the -patriotism which prompts the erection_of_ such a memorial will extend also to the designer. 



 CHARGES of unfairness are being preferred against the City Council of Brantford tn connection with

the awarding of the contract for the construction of the new waterworks system. Certain of the Brantford papers, as well as those of outside towns, are alleging that the Waterous Company were given the figures in the American Company's tender, and were allowed to take advantage of this information by putting in a-lower tender_after the time specified 'for receiving tenders had expired.. We have no information which would warrant us in expressing 'an opinion as to the truth or falsity of these charges. The circumstance, however, recalls the disgraceful proceedings which characterized the purchase by the city ot Toronto of a

specimens of work for illustration. We simple reserve the right to publish or not, basing our decision in the matter entirely upon the merits of the designs and drawings. We invite those who are capable of good design

- ing and drawing to send us specimens of their best work -for publication. 



 OPINIONS pro and con are being expressed

 through the columns f the newspapers regarding the practicability of the scheme or the construction of

the proposed Trent Valley Canal. Great differences of opinion exist also regarding the amount of traffic which would be likely to find its way through the canal, and' the- Consequent amount of revenue which could__be_

counted on to assist in recouping the Government for the vast outlay which would be required to carry out the undertaking. We hope the discussion of the question will continue until all the information possible has been obtained. The necessity for the canal should be established, and also the probability that it will pay the cost of maintenance and interest on the capital used in its construction before any steps are taken to carry out the  scheme. It is quite natural that people Irving and owning property, along the route of the proposed canal should be enthusiastic advocates of the carrying out of



Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



 ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. - Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th  day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



 —-	EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities. 







A joint committee composed of representatives of

—	American Institute	of Architects, the Western -

Association of Architects and the National Association -

of Builders met in New York recently and agreed upon a

uniform contract which will be submitted to architects arfdbuildets for general use throughout the United

States. Should a form of contract be devised which will meet with the approbation of persons interested, a

similar document should be agreed upon for use in this country.



 THE Government analysts have performed a highly commendable act in securtng and analyzing water used for drinking purposes in various parts of the -Dominion. The analysis of these samples proves that

only about one-third of the drinking water in use can be designated pure. Many of the most impure samples

analyzed were obtained from wells situated near school houses, from which probably the school supply of drink

-	ing water is obtained. This fact ought to be sufficiently alarming to parents to compel them to adopt sanitary

a 

measures to preserve the lives of their children. Could

 they but know how many cases of typhoid among public school pupils have had their origin in polluted well water there would be less indifference manifested in this important subject.





We observe with pleasure that it is proposed' to erect a suitable memorial to mark the scene of the battle of Lundy's Lane, The Lundy Lane Historical Society has submitted to Col. Otter, of this city,

- "the following suggestion for the proposed monument :

 That a space of at least 25 feet square be secured at or near the highest part of the bill, and that suitable access thereto be made from the doorway. 2. That a stone

 tower be erected at a height of - not 'less than 8o feet ____square exclusive of flagstaff,       and of a width of diameter

at the base ____exhibit of relics or trophies of the battles tought   in the

neighborhood 'the room to have an area of not less than 200 square feet. 3. The material to 'be of limestone, but other stone may be used

in relief, if com

_____pact and durable  The erection of monuments of this

lower tender after the time specified for receiving -tenders had expired. We have no information which

would warrant us in expressing an opinion as to the truth or falsity of these charges. The circumstance, however, recalls the disgraceful proceedings which characterized the purchase by the city of Toronto- of a new pumping engine four or five years ago. The wire- pulling and trickery connected with that transaction was sufficient to show that the man who can bring the 'most "influence" to bear upon the aldermen almost invariably'— gets the advantage of the man who relies upon his reputation_for honesty and the figures in his tender to secure him the contract. We hope that when the facts of the Brantford case come out, if they ever do, it will be seen that the contract ,was honestly awarded. If that- should turn out to have been the case, everyone will be pleased that a local and not an American company received the contract.



W

E desire to say a word or two on the subject of illustrations for publication in this journal. We

have of late been compelled to decline to publish many of the illustrations sent tous for that purpose, on account  of the lack of merit d

displayed in design and drawing.

 We confess that- in two 'or three instances we have published drawings'sent us that were by no means up- to the standard, but- we did so simply because we desired to give all parts of the Dominion fair representation. When 'we commenced the publication of the CANADIAN Architect and Builder we determined to illustrate the best work of- which we could procure drawings. Although, for the reason given, and from a desire to encourage our readers to send us drawings,: we allowed ourselves to be led into publishing some that had but  little merit, we shall in future avoid doing so. We have many Canadian architects who are capable of producing creditable designs and drawings, and is not fair to Canadian architecture to publish illustrations that are not' fairly representative of the best work done in 'this country. Unfortunately - the authors of some of the  drawings sent to us appear to be unable to distinguish 'as between good work and bad, so far at least as their own productions are concerned. If they could thus judge, they certainly would not be so ready to send' abroad over this continent and       Europe specimens of third-class architecture and drawing with their names as authors attached. - In thus declining to publish inferior

drawings, we shall be doing a kindness to their authors, and shall feel that we are not guilty of misrepresenting

 to the outside world the preponderating quality of the work done in this country. We make this statement with no desire to discourage any one from sending us

obtained. The necessity for the canal should be established, and also the probability that it will pay the cost of maintenance and interest on the capital used in its 'construction before any steps are taken to carry out the scheme. It is quite natural that people living and owning property along the route of the proposed canal should be enthusiastic advocates of the carrying out of the work, but inasmuch as the people of the country at  large will be asked to shoulder the burden of its cost, the question to be considered is—will the undertaking pay? We' are already, for a young country, to lerably well supplied with railways and canals; we are paying a very large sum yearly in interest upon the money borrowed to construct them, and we- should absolutely refuse to increase our burdens in this" direction without. being first satisfied that further expenditure is absolutely required and will make us profitable returns.



 The plumbers' strike in this city seems as far from



 being settled as ever. Indeed an adjustment of the difficulty now appears much more difficult thanit would have been when the strike began. Both parties to the

- dispute have acted in a manner calculated to widen the breach rather than to promote a mutually satistactory understanding. We have so far not seen any statement made as to the grounds upon' which the journeymen ask" for such a substantial increase of wages. It cannot be said that the plumbing business is in such a prosperous condition as to warrant the employers in increasing by onefourth their wages bill. On the contrary, the outlook for the master plumbers of this city is by no means bright. The large amount of speculative building done during the last three or four- years has greatly diminished this season, arid is not at all likely to revive for some time to come. There are already houses enough erected to supply' the wants of tenants for two or three years at least. Building operations in this line will consequently be on a

 very much smaller scale than heretofore. The large amount of speculative building done of late created a demand for a cheap kind of plumbing, and induced

a considerable number. of persons to embark in the 

plumbing business. As a consequence journeymen found their services in demand. If a continuance of_  that condition of affairs might be counted upon, there

there might be some ground upon which to claim an increase of- wages. Seeing that the' amount of plumbing required during the next two years is likely to- be at

least twenty-live per cent. less than during the last two.:

years, the action of the journeymen must be

regarded as either very thoughtless or very unreasonable. '

On the other hand, the- refusal, of the employes - to consult