<doctype type="text">August, 1888 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	9

it a "useless refinement" or forget it. To give some idea of the relation between the resistaxrces and the dif

-ference_of temperature necessary to overcome them the following experiment is reported, it was, bowever, made for another purpose.

 A represents a one inch brancb tee with one and one fourth inch inlet and outlet, distance from center to center of branches two and one-fourth inches, the one inch pipes were three feet long the two upper ones connected at_their ends with two elbows and a nipple the two lower ones with a return bend. The pipes and R are the flow, and return pipes one and a half inch to the elbows which were directly connected to the upper and lower drums of the Walker Pratt boiler. Thermometers were inserted at a, b, c and d, and in a pipe connecting the front end of the drums to give the temperature in the boiler. The temperature of the room was 74 degrees at boiler 183 degrees.

a = 180

loss 6 1/2





The difference between "a" and the boiler was in.



half inch globe valves which are not fit for any use whatever on a heating plant and should never be put on goo& work, they were used in this- case because they were on and the boiler filled and fired when it was determined to make the experiment, of course tbe "head" in the case of the one incb pipes is small being only that due to the contraction of a column two and one-fourtb inches high

cooled four degrees in one case and one four and a half inches high cooled three and a fourtb degree in tbe otber. If we assume that tbe losses of heat in the upper and lower circuits are equal it follows that the quantity of water flowing through them varies inversely as the losses in temperature or as sixteen to thirteen. The effective bead in ch circuit is practically proportional to the height multiplied by the loss in temperature or as twenty-six to sixteen1 the velocities are as the square root of the heads and the sections being the same the flows are in the same proportion, this gives a theoretical proportion of fifty one to forty. The circulation through the body of tbe branch tee with the head due to the contraction of a column three feet and four inches high was so rapid that the; slow stream of water of 173 1/2 degrees temperature flowing in at "b" produced no appreciable effect on tbe thermometer at "c" although it must have made some difference. The thermometers used were only graduated to degrees and were read to half degrees

trom the city reservoir' without danger of contamination of tbe water supply.

The Stratford, Ont., Gas Co. are putting in what is claimed to be the largest gas engine on this continent as an auxiliary to the water wheel in their electric light station. Ordinary illuminating gas is used as fuel.

It has been estimated that_a modern brick dwelling of' medium size requires about 10,000 gallons of- water- in its construction, much of which is still present when the workmen withdraw. _ Heat is of less use in getting rid of this moisture than free ventilation.

 Mr Kirk, plumbing inspector, Toronto, make the suggestion in the columns of a couple of' our American centemporaries that the, plumbing inspectors should-form an association and meet annually to discuss matters of interest. The suggestion appears to have been favorably received, and will doubtless- bear fruit. _

The. New York board of health will endeavor to deodorize the foul earth thrown up in digging trenches for gas and water-pipes by using bromine. A few years ago says the Sanitary News, the health officer of Detroit; _Dr.

O. W. Wight, determined to try the effect of disinfecting the sewers during an epidemic 61' scarlet fever and diphtheria. Seventy-five thousand pounds of dissolved copperas were poured into the sewers. Three tons roll sulphur were burned in iron pails and lowered in the sewers and the sulphur smoke an4 sulphurous acid gas filled every drain and sewer, pipe. The result was a great abatement of diphtheria and an almost entire cessation of scarlet fever. It is believed bromine will disinfect sewers quite as effectually and much. more pleasantly.

Factoryowners at Carlisle, says an English paper,  to the utilization of the tall chimneys as ventilators for tbe sewer of the town. Already twenty-nine are in operation. From experiments made it was found the amount of air passing uy the chimney was 16,596 cubic feet, and the velocity was 1,202 lineal feet per minute, or more than amile in five minutes. On windy days the motion would be quicker. The difference between the air of tbe sewers and atmos pheric air is suggested when it is said that the latter has occasionally three times tbe velocity of the former—or, in other words, the air from sewers is heavy. -No harm can arise to the workers in the factoriew from tbe extra employment of the chimneys, and such powerful ventil— ators must remove the danger attending sewers.

Mr. Allen Pringle in a letter to a Toronto daily paper on the subject of impure water, urges as the best pre

 Architects, Engineers, Builders, Owners and others are invited to send particulars of all kinds of construction work in contemplation, for publicacation in this department. Please state location, character and cost, -

names of person or persons controlling the work.



·	Lindsay, Ont. A large opera house is to be built here.



Sarnia, Ont. It is proposed to build a ncw separate school

here. _________	____________________



- STRATHROY, ONT.—The Baptists will build a new church to cost $5,000.



Georgetown, Ont. - There is talk of putting in the electric light here. 

Belleville, Ont. - Improvements to St. Thomas' church are

contemplated.	-

Bowmanville, I ONT.—The congregation ot Trinity church will rebuild at once.

Peterborough, Ont. An addition 90x30 feet will be made to the bridge works.

MADOC. ONT,—A by-law granting $8.000 for a high school

has been carried.	- 

PORT ARTHUR.—There is a proposal to spend $175,000 on a system of waterworks.

OTTAWA, ONT.—A new iron bridge is to be built over the Chaudiere River, P.Q.

Penetanguishene, ONT,—A company_has been formed to build a large hotel at Shcans Point.

REGINA, N. W. T.—About $60.000 worth of brick buildings will be erected here before the cold weather sets in.



St. MARY'S Ont. - The Town Council is visiting and inspecting the waterworks systems of other municipalities with the view or establishing a system here.



London, ONT—The Board of Works contemplates an expenditure of $20000 on street improvements the present season.—The erection of a Normal school is being agitated here.



Aylmer, UNT.—Subscriptions are being taken to raise money for a memorial window to be erected in the new Presbyterian church in memory of the late P. M. Nairn, M. P. P.

STRATFORD, ONT.—Having got the electric light, an agitation is on foot for a system of sewerage.—The Council wants tenders (or an iron bridge with stone abutments to cover a span of ofty feet .

KINGSTON, ONT.—St, James' church is to be improved at a cost of $8,500. The seating capacity will be doubled.—Tenders for the construction of a dry dock at Kingston will shortly be asked for, at an estimated cost of $300.000. 

+		+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	

proportion of fifty-one to forty. The circulation through the body of the branch tee with the head due to the contraction of a column three feet and four inches high was

-so rapid that the, slow stream of waterof 173 1/2 degrees temperature flowing in at "b" produced no appreciable effect on the thermometer at "c" although it must have made some difference. The thermometers used were only graduated to degrees and were' read to half degrees with difficulty. There are many variations in the manner of" piping" houses. —The manufacturers of" heaters" all show in their catalbgues a large number of small, pipes leading from the top and- returning to the bottom -of the heater and advise their customers to do their work in this way. It is not considered the best way by men of large experience however. It is quite probable that the manufacturers take this course because' it requires less skill and judgment to make a plant work' this way than it does to proportion the pipes for a "branch" system, and they seIl their goods to many dealers who are not experienced in the business. It is more expensive in pipe as a rule and makes the cellar hotter to have many small pipes than to have one large one.. The carrying capacity of pipe having considerable length increases as the square root of the fifth power of their diameter. Their radiating surface practically as their diameter and the price somewhat faster but nothing near to their capacity ratio.



Moncton, N. B., will discard gas in favor of the electric light.

Mr. Peter English is negotiating for-the sale of the GaIt gas works.

The city of London wants a competent assistant water works engineer.

The City Engineer of Halifax, N. S., has recommended the City Council to discourage the use of hopper water closets.

The Brantford, Ont., Electric Light Company have put in a new thirty-five lamp machine which enables them to supply ninety-five lights in the city.

The secretary of. the Provincial Board of 

Health, Dr.

P. H. Bryce, states that the Province of Ontario- is- atpresent freer from contagious diseases than it has been for years pasts.

the drainage of buildings requires to be carefully looked after in. the interests of the health of the occupants.—A serious attack of typhoid fever was the result



Convent, Montreal.





pressed the opinion that the proposed Victoria hospital

at Montreal may be	erected at a distance	of 230 metres.

occasionally three times the velocity of the former—or, in other words, the air from sewers is heavy. - -No harm can arise to the workers in the factories from the extra employment of the chimneys, and such powerful ventilators must remove the danger attending sewers.



Mr. Allen Pringle in a letter to a Toronto daily paper on the subject of impure water, urges as the best'preventative of sickness from this cause, the use of water filters. He further advises his readers to place no dependence on the doctor, as "his interests unfortun

— ately run exactly parallel with the impure stream." The latter statement thus generally applied is a very rash one indeed. There may be unprincipled doctors who fill their pockets at the expense of the health and lives of their patients, but it is a slander to include all, or_even a majority of physicians in this category. The Local and Provincial Boards of Health, which have labored 50. energetically and successfully to combat disease and to educate the public in the department of sanitary knowledge, are composed largely of medical men. The unwillingness of the public to learn what precautions are necessary against disease, or having this knowledge, the carelessness displayed in making the application of it, are the greatest hindrances in the way of lessening the extent of disease.

<article title=" HOW TO SEASON TIMBER " author="">



HOW TO SEASON TIMBER.

How to season timber so as to prevent the ravages of dry rot is something in which builders generally are interested.

According to R. F. Francius, to preserve oak timber from dry rot it should be laid in large piles in salt water for a whole year, and so as to be completely covered with the water. By this means the salt penetrates the wood and the consequence is that it remains always free from dry rot and lasts twice as long as it would -do without this preparation. It the wood can be put into sea water perfectly pure and free from all earth deposit it is so much the better, and on the coast it may be best kept in basins dug for the purpose.— Care must of course be taken to lay it so that it cannot drift away-. Where salt is very abundant, wood may be seasoned by covering it with a thick layer of that material, when the air is damp and foggy, without heavy rain. The salt also destroys dry rot in building as may be proved by washing the wood infected



repeatedly with strong' brine made hot. New wood may be prepared for use in the some manner. - Metal Worker.







The Geneva, N. Y., Courier contains the following reference to the Dunning b of which the Waterous Company, of Brantford, Ont., are the Canadian manufacturers :-" The Courier is pleased to refer to the incomparable Dunning boiler, the sales of which are almost phenomenally large and are constantly increas -ing. The industry has been closely watched by. many Geneva citizens who hay noted the steady and firm increase of plant,  boilers now n use of this manufacture is probably larger than that of any other steam heating

STRATFORD, ONT.—Having got the electric light, an agitation is on foot for a system of sewerage.—The Council wants tenders for an iron bridge with stone abutments to cover a span of fifty feet.



KINGSTON, ONT.—St.	church is to be improved at a cost of $8,500. The seating capacity will be doubled.—Tenders for the construction of a dry dock at Kingston will shortly be asked for, at an estimated cost of $300,000.



INGERSOLL, ONT.—Mr. Ed. Wassell, C. E., of this place, is prospecting and surveying the country around Ingersoll for the purpose of finding suitable waler and site for a system of water works for that place. -- - '

HAMILTON, Ont. - A $5,000 addition is to be made to the Barton street school.—The congregation of St. James Reformed' Episcopal church will build a fine new church at once.—A movement has been started with the object 'of erecting in this city an asylum for inebriates. - Rev. Dr. Sexton can give particulars.

Winnipeg, Man. - Tenders are invited for the erection of station houses on the C. P. R. · Pembina and South-western branches.

 On the Pembina branch stations will be built at Deloraine, Boisse vain. Killarney, Thornhill, Pilot Mound. LaRiviere, Crystal City. Clearwater, Cartwright and Little Pembina. On the Southwestern branch stations will be put up at Treherne, Holland and Glenboro.

TORONTO, ONT.—Plans have been prepared for a new building for the Toronto Conservatory of music, designed to accommodate 2,000 pupils.—The following permits for the erection of new buildings have been issued from the office of the city commissioner during the last month John. Kidd, 2 storey. and attic r. c. dwelling. Seaton st., cost $2,000; B. Hancroft. pr. detached 2 storey and attic brick dwellings. Bloor st.. near-Huntley, cost $10,000; Thomas Skippen, pr. s. d. r. c. dwelling, Baldwin st., cost  $2,500; AId. W. Hill, pr. s. d. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings. Manland st.. cost $4,000; W. G. 'Holcombe, 2 prs. s. d. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings, Spadina Ave.. cost $12,000; Industrial Loan and Investment Co., 3 storey bk. factory, Lombard street; Mr. Foland. pr. s. d. 2 storey and attic r. c. dwellings, William St., cost $3,000; Consumers Gas Co.. a storey bk. boiler house, Berkeley st.. cost $50,000; E. M. Moore, pr. s. d. 2 storey and attic r. c. dwellings, Becker st., cost $2,700; Consumers' Gas Co., 2 storey b meter house, Front st., cost $20,000; Mr. Muir, pr. s..' d. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings, Mutual & Maitland sts cost $6,000; Mrs. Lawson, att. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings, Albert St., cost $6,000; J. J. Blain, pr. s. d. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings. Rose Ave., cost $6,000; J. Waly, four att. 2 storey bk. dwellings, Sherbourne st., cost $7,000: C R. Rundle & Co., live

-	attached 2 storey and attic- bk. dwelling, Moss Park Grove, cost $20,000; T. V. Gearing. pr. alt. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings and one 3 storey att. bk. store, Gerrard   street east, cost $10,000; Mr. O'Rielly, pr. att. 2 storey r. c. dwellings. Agnes ad Chestnut sts., cost $3,000; G. Noble, 3. storey bk. store, Ontario st. and Wilton Ave., cost $1,400; Mr. Black, 5 att. 2 storey and attic bk. dwellings, Gerrard st., west, cost $6,000; J. H. McKinnon, 2 storey and attic bk. dwelling. Jarvis st.,  cost $6,500; Thomas



Thomason & Sons. alterations and additions. King street, east, cost $2,000; Mr. Sharpe, pr. s. d.-bk. houses; Maitland st., cost $7,5000. - Toronto University is to have a $45,000 building added to it for biological study.—The Toronto Normal School wiU have

-	$20,000 improvements added to it. 

