<doctype type="text">	_____________________ — - 

 August, 1888		THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	. 

head room, and where the plan or area for the stairs is confined, the stairs may make two revolutions in the height of the story that is, in ascending or descending we may go twice round 'the newel or well hole; and this becomes necessary, otherwise the steps would be enormously high. or extravagant floor-room must be allowed for the stairs. 

As grand and principal staircases require broad and low steps, they therefore require to be numerous, and admit of only one revolution in the height of the story, the plan being always proportioned to the height of the buildings. It may not be amiss to give an example here for a principal

building, in order to show the			the grand

and in	common staircase.	. .

For this purpose, suppose the story of a house to be 16 feet high from floor to floor, the height of the steps or- the servants staircase to be not less than 7 inches, and- that of the grand staircase to be not more than 6 inches.                       

Now the height of the story reduced to inches is 192, and first dividing by 7, thus:

	7(192	        192

	—	Therefore, —=7 1-9 rise,

	27 1/4	        27 1/4



Then, for the principal stairs, dividing by 6, thus:

6)192

— steps. 6 inches the rise.

32

 that the servants' stairs require 37 steps and the grand staircase 32; but the space or area required to execute the common stairs must therefore have two revolutions in the height.

This being allowed, will reduce the area to half of what it otherwise would have required. - . 

We must, however, observe that when the height of the story is less than 14 feet the stairs will not admit of two revolutions.

In planning a large edifice particular attention must be paid to the situation of the stairs, so as to give the most convenient and easy access to the several rooms.

With regard to the lighting of a grand staircase,  a lantern-light or a sky light with a horizontal light under it is the most. appropriate.                By introducing these more effect is produced and the light admitted is more powerful, but, indeed, where one side of the stair-case is not a portion of the exterior wall a lantern or skylight is the only way in which the light can be admitted.

In stairs constructed of stone the steps are made of single blocks; quarter-spaces and half-spaces are, however, often made in two or more pieces and joggled together; but when the material is wood. the risers and treads, must be made of boards, which fastened together with glue, brackets and screws; and these, though done with the utmost care, can

never be made so firm as not to yield a little to the.

passenger.

To prevent the stairs from becoming rickety, in ength of time, the steps must have an additional support under

 them, and, that the appearance may be

Messrs. O'Connor & Bin , proprietors of the Queen's hotel, are advertising for tenders for alterations and improvements.

The Winnipeg waterworks are putting down several miles of and the city is adding to

water service	its drainage system.

Mr. Doidge, contractor, has about nished his block pavement contract,

The new buildings for the General Hospital are nearly finished,



OTTAWA 



 (Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder.)  BUILDING operations here have been much brisker this sum

---~mer than for the past ten A large number of private residences, schools, churches and business blocks are being erected, It is estimated that the building operations for the present season will amount to $300,000. 

The competitive designs, under motto, for the new police station for which $15,000 has been' voted, have been before the Property Committee of the City Council for the past three weeks, but up to the present time they have not been able to decide upon the



most appropriate plan. Four designs were sent in, and although under motto, one of the competitors signed his specification, and in place of ruling him out for irregularities, his plan is stil before the committee. This is one of the beauties of competitions.

The want of an architectural association is seriously felt here. An effort has been made at different times to form an architects' guild in this city, but the trouble appears to be to define who ar qualified to become members. It is to be hoped that through the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER the architects of the different cities and towns will give their views on the necessity of a national association, and that during the coming winter a meeting 01 architects may be called and an effort made to form an association, 

—We learn from the Victoria, B. C. papers that building operations are very brisk in that city at present. Architects have never been so busy before, the brick and lumber yards have all they can do to supply the demand for materials, and carpenters and brick layers are fully employed. Over half a, million dollars worth of

new buildings are in course of erection.	-	-



The Canadian correspondent of the Liverpool Journal of Commerce says that in all parts of Nova Scotia there is great activity in show material improvement, A considerable number of

Scotians have recently returned from- the		Nova,

United States with a

large stock of experience, which they intend to utilize for the benefit of themselves-and their own country, 

A brick dwelling with a shingle roof is estimated to last 75 years. and depreciates 1 1/3 per cent. per year. The plastering therein 20 years, 3 1/3 per cent. painting. 7 years, 14 pen cent.; shingles and outside blinds, 6 per cent.; cornice and base, 48 years, 2 1/2 percent.; sheathing, 50 years, 2 per cent.; floorings, 20 years, 5 per cent.; doors, windows inside blinds, stairs and newel, 30 years, 3 1/2 per cent.; building hardware, 20 years, 6 per cent.; sills and floor joists, 40 years. 2 1/2 per cent.; dimension lumber, 75 years, 1 1/2 per cent,— Captain Shaw, Chief of the London Fire Brigade, in a magazinc article on the protection 01 'dwelling houses from fire, says:

there is a great deal of faulty construction in houses in consequence of architects being seldom employed. Cracked walls are almost sure to give way in case of fire. 'Party' walls should be

carried at least three feet above the highest part of the roof. All roofs should be provided with windows or openings by which the inmates of a house could escape in the event of the stairs becoming impassable. The best material for stairs is wrought iron and tbe worst stone, since the latter yields to an amount of heat which does not aflect ordinary respiration, Whenever a house has both wooden and stone stairs the inmates

- should, in case of fire invariably make for the wooden stairs, as affording the only hope

 to escape.

In joinery, as in all systems of construction, says  Viollet-le-Duc, the material used must regulate the

—modeof joining and determine the form, wood being a material possessing special properties, that must be considered in arranging works in joinery as well as those in carpentry; mediaeval artisans never abandoned this correct principle. A knowledge of wood is one of the conditions required of the joiner: after acquiring with its texture and strength.  The best wood for joinery is oak, on account of its stiffness, the delicacy of its fibres, its uniform hardness, its durability and its beauty. Hence, at least in France during the middle ages, oak was exclusively employed in the joinery of buildings.

The subject of masonwork in freezing weather continues to occupy a good deal of attention in the technical journals. The stories of the excellence of stonework laid with hot mortar in Stockholm and other Northern cities in winter, and then allowed to

+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	+	

and these, though done with the utmost care, can never be made so firm as not to yield a little to the 

passenger.

To prevent the stairs from becoming rickety, in ength of time, the steps must have an additional sup.

 port under them, and, that the appearance may be



both light and pleasant, the whole must be confined

to as small a space as possible.

This additional woodwork, which is necessary to the firmness and durability of the construction, is called the carriage of the stair.

The carriage of the stair usually consists of several pieces framed together, and each flight of steps is generally supported by two pieces of timber, placed under the steps, and parallel to the wall, being fastened at one or both ends to pieces perpendicular to

 the walls.		'

The pieces of timber which are thus placed under the steps are called rough strings. 

 The subject of hand railing is too intricate and  would require more space than is allotted to us to discuss it here.

NOTE.—A portion of the notes on the proportions on the steps and risers are the substance of that given by an anonymous writer in a English work on carpentry and joinery.—D. W. King, in

Building.	-		—



BOWMANVILLE



(Correspondence of The CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER.) The private tender of Messrs. Munson & Bunney for the rebuilding of the Congregational church and vestry has been accepted by the building committee. Before its recent destruction by fire this was one of the finest churches of its size in the Dominion, and a view of the plans which have been prepared by Mr. Bunney warrants the opinion that it wiLl undoubtedly retain its reputation. The church is to be finished and ready for occupation by January next,

Our School Board has not decided on any plans yet. During the year there has been nothing but wrangling over them, and two or three architects have been discharged. Messrs. Power & Son. architects, of Kingston, are now engaged preparing plans, and it is hoped the Board will adopt them and proceed at once to erect the building.



WINNIPEG.



(Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder.) THE building trade in Winnipeg has not been very brisk'

this season, but the prospects very encouraging. There are a few small private residences being erected, but except the Herdler block which is now almost completed, there have not been any business blocks built this year Bricklayers and masons have very little to do. Painters and plumbers are busy. Carpenters are well employ

	ed, there being several	outside the city on the stations

for the Red River Valley railroad, and also on	elevators that Messrs. Timewell & Son are architects for C. E, Stevens, is erecting a fine residence in Fort Rouge.— Mr. Wheeler is

 .	

The contract for the new Roman Catholic church for this city has been awarded to O. J. Lyons for $74.500. It is expected that

the foundations will be aid this fall, and the work completed in

 two-years. .		-



For seventy yards of surface provide 1,000 pieces of lath, and eleven pounds of lath nails.

For 100 square feet of roof. 1,000 shingles, laid four inches to the weather, and five pounds of shingle-nails, will be necessary,

Mr. Sylvester J. Campbell, builder and contractor, Gait, Ont., has disappeared, leaving a large number of sorrowing creditors.

Mr. John Purdon has been giver. the contract to build an ad ditional wing to the asylum at London, Ont., at a cost of $20,000.

Messrs. Harding & Leathorn, of London are laying the new waterworks mains of Goderich. There will be 35,000 fee

and 47 hydrants.	all told

In estimating amounts of siding and flooring, allow one-fifth more than the surfaces to be covered for the lap in siding and the matching in the flooring.

The contract for the construction of a new water-works system at Brantford has been given to the Waterous Company, of that

city at the price of $106,278.	 There are In Canada 84 loan and building societies, of which 66

have their headquarters in Ontario. The subscribed capital of the Ontario companies amounts to $72.878,219.

A Brantford paper 'makes the statement that the members of' the London School Board have had their p portraits carved in stone and placed over the windows in a new. building, and are now quarreling with the artist because he didn't make them appear



For some time past builders in Germany have resorted to the use of a composition of cork, sand and lime, molded into bricks, for  to exclude  sound better than ordinary brickwork, while being light and a good



ployed in the joinery of buildings. 

The subject of masonwork in freezing weather continues to occupy a good deal of attention in the technical journals, The stones of the excellence of stonework laid with hot mortar in Stockholm and other Northern cities in winter, and then allowed to freeze, have multiplied, while, on the other hand, a recent report by an American engineer, Mr. Emil Kuichling, appears to show conclusively that mortar, particularly if made with cement, and used hot, lost a large part of its strenght; the resistance, as determined-by -actual experiment, of_briquettes of near cement, mixed hot and then exposed for seven days to the air, being, on an average, only one-eighth that of briquettes of the same, cement, mixed at the same time, with water having the temperature of the air, and then exposed in the same way. Curiously enough, briquettes made with Portland



cement and cold water would not freeze, even at a temperature of thirteen degrees Fabrenheit, unless exposed to the wind, and the setting process appeared to go on undisturbed even at this temperature; while

briquettes made of the same cement, mixed with hot water, in. variably froze. With natural cements the resistance to freezing was much less than with the Portland, but no details are mention.— ed on the subject. The.addition to water sometimes made. to prevent freezing. is found to injure native cements, while Portland is not affected. - American Architect and Building News.



[ADVERTISEMENT.)





" The pleasing effects attainable by the use of mortar stains has led to their widespread adoption by the architects and builders, cities, where the demand for them is steadily upon the increase. The character of the coloring matter used is of course an import. ant consideration, and as results are not always immediately manifest, too much care cannot be exercised in their selection.'

Competitive tests of the different brands all point to the Pectota Mortar Strains " as the most desirable, especially in the thoroughness of its coloring qualities, permanency and absolute' imperviousness to atmospheric changes.

Neither heat, cold or dampness will cause it to run or bleach, and in no respect does it alter the condition of the mortar, quicken the set, or induce it to crumble,  No more haste therefore is necessary in striking the joints than with ordinary white. 

Careful analysis also proves its freedom from all substances in-. jurious to the workman, and likewise demonstrates the absence of gas, oil. and all impurities which tend to hinder the process of hardening. It 'is incapable of change and therefore cannot possibly increase the white deposit to brick fronts and



mortar while we have the testimony of competent experts tha these stains will color one third more mortar than any in use. 

These goods are being made by S. Bowen's Sons, 150 North 4th street, Philadelphia. U.S. A.' Canadian dealers can be

 



- 

 

