<doctype type="colophon;text">PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF



Architects, Civil  and-Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders Contractors, and Manufacturers and Dealers In Building Materials and Appliances.

Vol. 1.—No IX.

TORONTO, CANADA, SEPTEMBER — 1888

- Canadian Architect and Builder

 A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST 07



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUM. DER; DECORATORS, BUILDERS CONTRACTORS, AND

·	MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



— C. H. MORTIMER Publisher 31 King Street West,  TORONTO, CANADA.

courts was adverse to the city, and under which decision

- the citizens would have been deprived of the park and avenues on the improvement of which they have expended vast sums of money. The loss of the Queen's Park would have been well-nigh irreparable; owing to the impossibility of securing as much land elsewhere in the centre of the city for park purposes. As to the $6,000 endowment which it is proposed to give to the University, this much can be said: a large number of the students at the university are the sons and daughters of citizens of Toronto, and the money which the city gives for the purpose of increasing the efficiency of the institution they will receive back indirectly, in the better education of their children. While the citizens of Toronto have cause to congratulate themselves that the city has  representatives in the Council should in future guard against putting in office men who by the neglect of their duties may at any time involve the city in difficulty and

	loss.	__________________







ATTENTION has- been called by the loss of. life resulting from several holocausts which have lately taken place in New York city, to the inadequacy of the means provided for escape in case of fire, of persons

which the citizens are now asked to give will insure the erection of builders that Will be sufficiently commodious for the requirements of the future, while at the same time they will sta d as an imposing public ornament for all time to come. The citizens must now assume the

important responsibility of deciding what the character of the new buildings shall be. Let the decision be a wise one 



- The professional labor agitators have evidently a

strong hold upon the managers of several of the

-Toronto daily papers, if indeed they do not actually edit or write some of the articles bearing on the relations of employers and employees appearing therein. In the early days of the plumbers' strike in Toronto, these papers, instead of discussion the situation from an impartial standpoint, allowing that blame might rest upon both parties, and counselling mutual concessions for the purpose of bringing about a speedy settlement of the dispute, took the ground at the start that the conduct of the employers was characterized by selfishness, injustice and unreasonableness. In taking this unwise, position, the "papers 'in question

 were really doing the strikers an injury instead of rendering them assistance. The strikers were patted on the back





++++++++++



WE read of the caving in of sewers at Brantford and Woodstock., Ont., with injury to workmen, emphasizing the remarks made in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a month or two ago regarding the  necessity which exists for a closer oversight of the means  employed by contractors to protect the lives of workmen engaged in excavations of this kind. - 



The City Solicitor has given it as his opinion that the clause in the Toronto Plumbing By-law which stipulates that no person shall receive a plumbing license in Toronto who is not a "Canadian by birth or naturalization," is unreasonable, and would therefore be held to be invalid. As. the striking plumbers have been seeking :to take advantage of this clause to prevent the employment of imported workmen, the information conveyed by the Solicitor will prove anything but acceptable to them.



WE are pleased to observe that the labor congress held at London, Ont., the other day, promised

to give its hearty support to any practical efforts tending to reduce the consumption of intoxicating liquors. . One of the greatest enemies to the prosperity and advancement of workingmen is the saloon. in recognizing this,  and. in resolving to combat the evil resulting from the drinking customs, the labor, congress adopted one of the quickest and surest methods of raising to a higher  physical, intellectual and moral status the condition of the class it represents.





THE Mayor of Toronto is entitled to much credit for the settlement which he has been the. means

 of bringing about with the University authorities in regard to a renewal of the Queen's Park lease. The Mayor proposes that the city shall pay as a yearly endowment to two chairs in Toronto. University the sum of

$6,000 

and approaches  thereto in proper order. This proposition the University authorities have signified their willingness to accept, and the difficulty is therefore as good as settled. Every citizen of Toronto must rejoice at such a happy outcome of a case in which the decision of the

means provided for escape in case of fire, of persons located in high buildings. We are probably more neglectful than our neighbors in this particular. It is the exception rather then the rule to see buildings in Canadian cities provided with fire escapes. - Some day, doubtless, we shall be startled to learn that a number of human lives have been lost as a result of carelessness in a matter which calls for the greatest precaution.



I

N proof of the saying that "it's an ill wind that blows nobody good," the news comes that a cyclone which recently passed over the fever-stricken city of Jacksonville, Florida cleared the atmosphere, lowered the temperature and washed perfectly clean the surface of the streets. In the opinion of. the physicians the result tended materially lessen the infection. We observe that the cyclone in question is described as a moderate one. As there is no means of regulating cyclonic force, sanitarians do -not anticipate that it .will be likely to come into popular favor as a remedial agent. 



THE

 new Court House and City Hall enterprise for city of Toronto, after lying dormant for many months, has been advanced a stage. 'Tenders have been received and opened for the whole work. The figures in these tenders aggregate $1,305,034. The Council has on hand for the erection of these buildings something over $800,000.. Since the tenders were opened, it has been decided to ask the citizens to vote $600,000 more to carry the work to completion. We understand it is the intention to place the designs for tbe buildings on exhibition in some public place where the citizens will have an opportunity to see and examine them. Having examined them, we may be allowed to express the opinion that the buildings erected from them will prove a credit  to Mr. Lennox, the architect, and to the city of Toronto. We have therefore no hesitation in saying that the citizens should vote the extra amount required to successfully carry out the enterprise. As we have before pointed out, this city is growing at. a surprisingly rapid rate. It has doubled its population during - the last ten years. Ten years    hence we may reasonably expect that the population will have reached at least a quarter of a mil

- lion. In view of these facts,     it would be anything but

 economy or wisdom to erect a cheap structure for the

- purposes of a city hall and court house. The money

and told that victory was sure to be theirs which had the effect of making them refuse to recede from any of their demands.. The employers were called hard names, which only made them the more determined to fight the thing out. A little judicious advice might have helped to end the difficulty long ago: Now that the strikers have virtually suffered defeat, the agitators who inspire the articles in the daily press would fain undo the mischief they have done, and are advising conciliatory measures. One journal. says: - The strike has continued long enough for both parties- to learn to respect each other. The fight has been prolonged and bitter, and as far as both are concerned there has not been the slightest change in the situation for at least ten weeks. It is time now that milder counsels prevailed and that both sides should reason together. There must be some common level upon which both sides can meet. There is no disgrace in an honorable treaty in which both sides make concessions, neither is it generous even for a victor to take an unfair advantage of a brave, but vanquished opponent. Let the master plumbers and the strikers each appoint a committee of sober level headed mernbers, the hot heads and fire brands a chance to stay in the back ground, and there is not the slightest doubt that the strike will be at an end inside of

- twenty-four hours,-and that both sides will be satisfied Let there be no delay; because every day lost in idle

-	contention is so much time lost that can never be recalled.— A man may lose a fortune and make it again,  but a day's labor lost is an injury not only to the man that loses it, but to the community at large that can never be repaired. This is the opinion of the majority on both sides, and why should it not be acted upon- at once ?" The journals would have better served the interests of all concerned in this unfortunate difficulty, but especially of the workmen and their families, had they advocated "milder counsels," at the beginning. Let us hope that in- future the "hot heads and fire brands" will not be allowed free scope in the columns of





The inferior quality of our workmen, if we may

-	be allowed to speak of them   this way, calls for some- radical change from present methods, if we are to attain as a people the position to which we are justly

