<doctype type="text;ad">The CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

September) 1888

<article title="Building Materials" author="">Building Materials

 _____

WANTED.

Young man aquatinted with architectural

drawing. to study architectural iron work. Apply. to.

Barnum WIRE	& IRON WORKS Walkerville, Ont.



Notice to Iron Bridge Builders.

SEALED TENDERS addressed to the undersigned, and endorsed ' Tenders for

Chaudiere Bridge." will be received at this office until Friday, the 5th day of October next, for replacing the present roadway of the Suspension Bridge across the Ottawa, at the city of Ottawa, with an Iron Truss Bridge, in accordance with a specification incorporated in and forming part of a form of tender, a copy of which, together with a plan of the present structure, will be supplied to Iron Bridge Builders only, on application to the Chief Engineer.

'renders must be accompanied by plans, specifications and strain sheets of the structure proposed to be constructed, and also a description in detail of the niodeor manner in which it is to be erected and put in place, as no interference with the present bridge or the traffic across the same will be permitted, except as stated in the specification; and they—the tenders—will not be considered unless made on the forms supplied. and signed with the actual signatures of the tenderers.

An accepted bank cheque, payable to the order of the Minister of Public Works, equal to five

per cent of amount of lender must accompany each tender. This cheque will be forfeited if the party decline the contract, or fail to complete the work contracted for, and will be returned in case of non-acceptance. of tender.

TIMBER SALE.

THERE will be offered for sale at Public Auction,-at the Court House, in the Town of Port Arthur, on Wednesday the nineteenth day of September, at the hour of, 2 o'clock p.m., the Pine Timber of not less than eight inches in

- diameter at- the butt, on the Eagle Lake Reserve in the Province of Ontario.

CONDITIONS OF SALE : :—Bonus cash at time of sale, and dues to be paid before removal of timber on all timber cut -on- the limit in accordance with tariff or dues of this Department, also an annual ground rent to be paid of $4.00 per square mile, and a license fee of $4.00., The purchaser to remove the timber within three years from date of sale. Also the purchaser to deliver free of charge to the Indians on the said Reserve, thirty thousand feet of lumber suitable for building

-houses.

For further particulars please apply to John Mcintyre, Esq., Indian Agent, Fort William, or to the Department of Indian Affairs Ottawa.

No other paper to insert this advertisement without authority through the Queen's Printer.

 . L. Vankoughnet

Deputy of the Supt. Genl.

of Indian Affafrs.

Dept. of Indian Affairs,.

Ottawa, 22nd Aug., 1888 

S

EALED TENDERS addressed to the undersigned, and endorsed "Tender for Post Office, Goderich, Oat.," will be received at this office until Monday, 15th October, 1888 for the several works required in the erection of Post. Office &c., at Goderich, Ont.

Specifications and drawings can be seen at the Department of Public Works. Ottawa, and at the office of the Town Clerk at Goderich, Ont., on and after Wednesday, 5th September, and tenders will not be considered unless made on the form supplied and signed with-actual signatures of tenderers

An accepted bank cheque, payable to the order of the Minister of Public Works equal to five per cent of amount of lender must accompany each tender. This cheque will be forfeited if the party decline the contract, or fail to complete the work contracted for, and will be returned in case of non acceptance of tender.

The Department does not bind itself to accept the lowest of any tender.

	By order,	A. GOBEIL,

Department of Public Works,	Secretary. Ottawa, 31st August 1888

SEALED TENDERS addressed to the undersigned, and endorsed ' Tenders for Elevators, &c., New Departmental Building, Ottawa,' will be received until Monday. 17th September, next..

All necessary information can be obtained at

of the Honorable the Minister of Public Works, equal to five per cent of the amount of the tender, which will be forfeited if the party decline to enter into a contract when called upon to do so, or if he fail to complete the work contracted for, If the tender be not accepted the cheque will be returned.

· The Department will not be bound to accept the lowest or any tender. By order, -

Dept. of Public Works A. GOBEIL, Secretary. Ottawa, Aug. 14th 1888 

FOUND AT LAST!

'PERFECT FITTING STOVE PIPE.

THOS. McDONALD & Co.

QUEEN CITY Galvanizing Works

Manufacturers

Toronto

