<doctype type="text">Semptember, 1888
5
respect to prosecute the work with promptness and diligence or fail in the performance of any of the agreements on parts herein contained, such refusal, neglect or failure being certified by the Architect , the Owner shall be at liberty, after three days written notice to the Contractor , to provide any such labor or materials, and to deduct the cost thereof from any money then due or thereafter to become due to the Contractor under this contract ;.and if-the Architect shall certify that such refusal neglect or failure is sufficient ground for  such the Owner shall also be at liberty to terminate the employment of the Contractor for said work and to enter upon the premises and take possession of all materials thereon, and to employ any other person or persons to complete- the work and to provide the materials therefor; and in case of such discontinuance of the employment of the Contractor , he shall not be entitled to receive any further payment under ibis contract until the said work shall be wholly finished, at which time, if
the unpaid balance of the amount to be paid under this contract shall exceed the expense incurred by the Owner
in finishing the work, such excess shall be paid by the Owner to the Contractor , but if such expense shall exceed such unpaid balance, the Contractor shall pay the difference to the Owner . The expense incurred by the Owner .as herein. provided, either for furnishing materials or for finishing the work and any damage incurred through such default, shall be audited and certified by the Architect , whose certificate thereof shall be conclusive upon the parties.
13th. And it is hereby mutually agreed between the parties hereto, that the sum to be paid by the Owner to the Contractor for said work and materials shall be-subject to additions or deductions on account of alterations as herein before provided, and that such sum shall be paid in current funds by the Owner to the Contractor , in installments as follows :
It being understood that the final payment shall be made within - days after this contract is completely finished, provided,- that in each of the said cases the Architect shall certify in writing.
that all the work upon the performance of which the payment is to become due has been done to satisfaction ; and provided further, that before each payment, if required, the Contractor shall give the Architect  good and- sufficient evidence-that the premises are free from all liens and claims chargeable to the said Contractor; and further, that if at any time there shall be any lien or claim for which, if established, the Owner or the said premises might be made liable, and which would be chargeable to the said Contractor the Owner shall have the
1st. Plan to 1/2 inch scale.
2nd. Elevation, to 1/2 inch scale.
3rd. Section, to 1/2 inch scale.	-
4th. Elevation of capitals on south side with 12 inches of the column. and 18 inches of the arch, 1/4 full size. -
5th. Sections through arches and columns, % full size. 
6th. Drawings of the wrought iron work, 1/4 full size.- 7th. Drawing of one capital, full size.
 8th. Drawing of wrought iron latch, full size.
All drawings. To be addressed to Mr.' S. G Curry, Mai1 Buildings, Toronto, and to be sent on or before the 1st November, 1888.
Each competitor may submit less than the full number of drawings called for, but the decision will be made by allowing marks according to merit on each drawing, and any competitor ofn itting a drawing will lose the full marks allotted to that drawing. Marks will be allowed for neat and orderly arrangement of drawings on the sheets. 
The competitor who receives the highest number of marks, will receive a prize, consisting of books to. the
	value of $15.	
The award will be made by a committee of the Architectural Guild. 
<article title="The Quebec Shield of 1759" author="">THE QUEBEC SHIELD OF 1759

M.	LE MOINE, in his standard work on the old 1 capital "Quebec Past and Present," thus describes the famous French shield, which the antiquarian researches of Mr J. M. O'Leary, of Ottawa, have recently near the ud:
a long list of its mayors, the first of which was sworn as such in the year 1560, before which time a bailiff was -the chief magistrate ; the list commences in 1500. Near it the arms of France is fixed, largely carved on wood, and painted with proper colors, with embellishments, and was presented to the corporation by one of the officers (a jurat of Hastings,) who was at the reduction of Quebec, where it was fixed over one of the gates of that city, all of which is inscribed in a tablet under the


In this same magazine for the year 1792 the following letters appear, bearing date the 20th January:

"The shield represented in plate Ill, figure 3, was taken from off one of the gates of Quebec in the year 1759, and was presented by General Murray to the corporation of Hastings. As this trophy commemo tes so noble a conquest, and the inscription does honor to the General who made a present of it, the insertion o them
-in your magazine will oblige.
	Yours, &c.,	'	- 
"Tilconnensis"

"This shield was taken from ofl one of the gates of Quebec at the time that a conquest was made of that city by His Majesty's sea and land forces, in the memorable year 1759, under the - commands of the Admirals Saunders and Holmes and the Generals Wolfe, Monckton, Townshend and Murray; which latter being
-	appointed the- first- British Governor thereof, made a present of this trophy of war to this corporation, whereof he at that - time was one of the jurats." (" Quebec Past  and Present," pages 357.8.) 
<article title="Our Illustrations" author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.
Montcalm's HEADQUARTERS AT Beauport -- 1759 -

 THE old Seigniorial manor:
 of the- Duchesnay's at Beauport - the Marquis of Montcalm's headquarters, during the memorable siege of Quebec, in 1759, was until its destruction by fire in 1879, an object of unfailing interest to tourists visiting the famous falls of Montmorency, three miles to the east of iL Seigniorial stone manors in the Province of Quebec are getting scarcer every day. The

++++++++++++++

which, if established, the Owner or the said premises might be made liable, and which would be. chargeable to the said Contractor , the Owner shall have the right to retain out of any pay-merit then due, or thereafter to become due, an amount sufficient to completely indemnify
against such lien or claim, until the same shall be efrectually satisfied, discharge or cancelled. And should there prove to be any such claim after all payments are made, the Contractor shall refund to the Owner all moneys that the latter may be compelled to pay in discharging any lien on said premises, made
obligatory in consequence of the former's default.
 14th. It is further mutually agreed between the parties. hereto, that no certificate given or payment made under this contract, except the final certificate or final payment, shall be conclusive evidence of the performance of this c tract either wholly or in part, against any claim of the Owner and' no payment shall be construed to be an acceptance of any defective work.
15th And the said Owner hereby agree with the said Contractor to employ, and hereby employ
to provide the materials and to do the said work according to the terms and conditions herein contained and referred to, for the price aforesaid, and hereby contract to pay the same, at the time, in the manner, and upon the conditions above set forth.
16th And the said parties for themselves, their heirs, executors) administrators and assigns, do hereby agree to the full performance of the covenants herein contained.
In Witness Whereof the parties to these presents have hereunto set their hands and seals, the day and year first above written.
In presence of-

<article title="Conditions of Measured Drawings Competition of the Architectural Guild of Toronto" author="">CONDITIONS' OF "MEASURED DRAWINGS" COMPETITION OF THE 'ARCHITECTURAL  GUILD OF TORONTO.
THIS competition is only open to students of not more than four years standing in- the offices of-
members of the Guild, and a certificate to that effect signed by the architect in whose office the student may
-be, must accompany- each set at drawings
All drawings are to be sent, in under "motto," or cipher," facsimile of motto or cipher 'to be en
closed with certificates.
 The drawings must be made in, Indian ink, on white paper to allow of the drawings being illustrated -


of the University Buildings," Toronto, and	the
following drawings are to be
	-	made. 
The Jesuit College AT Quebec - 1637-1878
"On one of the city-gates existing at Quebec in 1759 (probably the most fashionable and most used under French rule-Palace gate) was hung the: trophy shown above. The shield, made of oak, measures 44 by 36 inches. The cleaning and varnishing have brought out the colors of the stones in the crown, as well as the gilding and color of the order of Saint Esprit, which
surrounds the Fleur de Lys. The scroll is coloured green, and the inscription is in  gold letters on a black
ground.	- -	- -	-
In a topographical description of Hastings, in Sussex,

England, published in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1786 is found the first mention of the shield, in the following paragraph :
"The Town Hall    the market place	is a modern building, erected in 1700. In a frame hung up in it, is
visiting the famous falls of Montmorency, three miles to the east of it. Seigniorial stone manors in the Province of Quebec are getting scarcer every day. The ideas of modern comfort are ill suited for the inmates of these grim solid structures, with walls three feet thick, peaked gables and small grated windows, to protect them against Indian aggression in times bygone.
A circular plate of lead, much
injured by fire, bearing an inscription, was found in its ruins

in 1880 it contained some coins and the remnants of some documents which crumbled to dust when exposed to the air. The inscription, which gave rise to a lively antiquarian discussion, ran thus:

I.H.S.M.I.A.	 LAN 1634 LE
IVI LETIETE-PLA. Premiere, P. C. Giffart.

Seigneur De. Ce Liev.
The first line was made to read thus:- "Jesu hominum Salvatore, Maria immaculate auspice." Jesus the Saviour of men, under the auspices of Mary Immaculate.
The full particulars of this famous disquisition appear on pages 440-48 of "Picturesque Quebec." It seems to have been coeval with the first Seigneur of Beauport, surgeon Robert Giffard, who settled there in 1634, with his Perche le Norman colonists. Seigneur Juchereau (Duchesnay), its occupant in 1690, during the siege by Admiral Phipps, was ennobled by Louis XIV for his valiant defence of the place. 'For close on two hundred years the manor was occupied by the warlike Duchesnay
family; a living descendant, the portly Lt.-Col. Theodore
Duchesnay, Deputy Adjutant General (of Militia at
Quebec, was born there, - as well as his sister, the late
Madame Robert Le Moine, nee Emma Duchesnay. -The Duchesnay manor was sketched by the late Col. Benson Lossing, the historian of- the- American Revolution and of George Washington, and appeared in Harper's Magazine for January, 1859 .
It was from this hoary tenement that the heroic  on the morn
Or thy foe, Major General James Wolfe, on the Plains of

