<doctype type="text">6

September, 1888

Abraham, at Quebec, to decide the question of supremacy of leading two races on the continent of America. -



THE JESUIT COLLEGE AT QUEBEC—1637-1878.

The vacant space between. St. Anne and Fabrique streets, facing the Basilica to the west, represents the twelve arpents of land granted to the Jesuit Fathers in 1637 in the vicinity of Fort St. Louis, removed shortly after the conquest, and intended for the site of a college. As early as 1628, when Quebec contained but fifty souls, a sufficient sum to begin the structure bad been tendered.' A young nobleman from Picardy, in France1 Rene de Robault, son of the Marquis de Gamache, before taking orders as a Jesuit, had requested his father the Marquis, to hand over his patrimony; 16,000 ecusdor, or gold half crowns, to the missions of Canada It was subsequently rebuilt about 1720. One year later than its foundation in 1638, John Harvard bequeathed . 175. 2d. to support the college then recently founded by the Legislature of Massachusetts, near Boston, at Newtown, which that year changed its name into Cambridge.

The learned Order continued to teach the youth of Canada the higher branches of education until the suppression of the Order by. His Holiness, the Pope, in [764. In 1763 it held military stores and supplies. In 1765 Governor Murray, by proclamation dated 4th June, 1765, had it surveyed and appropriated as a barracks for the English soldiers It was then styled the Jesuit Barracks, and continued as such until the Imperial garrison of Quebec was withdrawn in 1871. It was sufficiently large to accommodate 1,000 soldiers, and comprised an extensive court, where the regiment in barracks was paraded each day at 10 o'clock a. in., sharp. In 1878 the spirit of vandalism rampant at that. time in the ancient capital, after making an unsuccessful attempt to demolish the cherished fortifications and heavy walls of our Gibraltar, spent some of its fury on this venerable former seat of learning. The antique pile succumbed at last to dynamite, much to the-regret of the citizens.

It is fronted on four sides with a court in the interior as well as a chapel seen in the plate.

It is contemplated to plant the site with trees in lieu of the magnificent denziens of the forest under which the devoted missionaries used of yore to meet for prayer or meditation, and to add a fountain and a wide avenue for traffic. It forms part of the Jesuit estates.

OLD ST. JOHN'S GATE, QUEBEC, (INSIDE) IN 1854.



IROQUOIS HOTEL, ST. HILAIRE, QUE — J. W. AND F.

 C. HOPKINS, ARCHITECTS MONTREAL

<article title="An Enquiry" author="">AN ENQUIRY.

Editor Canadian Architect AND BUILDER



Dear Sir, -- Referring to the illustrations in No. 5 or the CANADIAN ARCHITECT competition for a Town House, I want to ask if the North side of the house is correct as shown in the illustration? If it is, why should not the dormer in roof and chimney shown on



north elevation?



A.D. WASTE,

Student





Toronto, Sept. 5, 1888

[The north elevation as shown is perfectly correct. There is no reason why the chimney or dormer should or should not be shown. Some draughtsmen will show everything that is behind the picture plane, no matter how far back it may be—others will only show the features that are close up to it. There was nothing in these features which required to be shown for the purpose of explanation on the north elevation ; if there had been, it would have been well to have, shown them. Working drawings—by which we mean those which go into the hands of mechanics for their instruction—should be made as full and complete as possible; but drawings for the purpose of illustrating what is proposed to be done, may be treated very freely according 'to the whims of the

- draughtsmen. -- THE EDITOR.)



About $150 worth of plans made by American Architects for Windsor buildings have been seized by the Windsor customs office for non-payment of duty.

The American Institute of Architects will hold their twenty-second annual Convention at Buffalo on October 17th. -- An exhibition of architectural drawings will form a leading feature of the occasion.

To ensure. the sending out. of only students qualified



<article title="Contracts" author="">CONTRACTS

HAMILTON.



(Correspodence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



SINCE my last report there has been a marked improvement in the building line as evinced by quite a stir among the architects here in preparing plans for new buildings to be contracted for immediately. So far as [can learn the new buildings will be mostly brick dwelling houses in rows of from two to six, two stories and basement costing on an average about $1200 each, but there will be a (ew all detached villa residences which may cost from $3,000 to $4. each. These buildings have mostly been contemplated in the ng and would probably not have been built this year were it no at effects of the spring strikes are (ading away, and the price o( building owner. This latter is always an inducement, especially or speculative building. As it is DOW hoped that the building unions will profit by past experience and let well enough. alone, we may reasonably look for a busy fall trade with bright prospects for the spring and as the same state of affairs no doubt exists in other cities in Ontario, the "Ambitious City" will not be alone in rejoicing over a revival that will ensure plenty of work to her resident mechanics, removing the necessity for them to seek employment elsewhere as has been the case during the past summer, and that foreign labor will not be again imported to take the place of men who were compelled to refuse to work by the authorities appointed to control their actions.

In my last report I mentioned that upon complaint having been made it was assured that the Building Inspector's books would in future be kept systematically and correct, but I regret to say that

- the last month's record shows very little improvement in this respect. No doubt some of the buildings that were commenced have been recorded, but not in the way required by the by-law, which stipulates under a penalty that before commencing any building in the city limits a description of such building. the locality, the name of die proprietor and the probable cost of erection, should be entered. This has not been done in a single instance. Merely the description or class of building is given with the locality. without even the proprietor's name the entry generally being made by the contractor for the stone and brick work. .who merely signs his own name. Until an example is made, and the penalty enforced it is doubtful if our building record will ever be so full and useful as that of the city of Toronto, which is certainly well and properly kept. -

 Here is the record for July as taken from the Inspector's book:

Two brick dwelling houses on Bay St. Hammon one brick dwelling house on Cherry St. James; one brick dwelling detached





+++++++++++++++++



<article title="Why do Professional Men Seek Salaried Positions?" author="">WHY DO PROFESSIONAL MEN SEEK SALARIED POSITIONS?

A

 RECENT item in a Boston daily calls attention to three architects, each of whom, it was said

should be able to earn $5,000 in his business, yet one had just closed his office to accept a government position at $2,500, and the other two were candidates for $1,500  places on the state police. Doubtless similar instances

could be found in the ranks of the engineers, and in  either case there does not appear to be any adequate

general reason.

There are, however, and always will be, men who are easily dissatisfied or discouraged. Such an one if he

- has no real love for his profession and no resolute determination to achieve success in it becomes quickly restless in the dull spells that almost invariably visit at same time the young practitioner, and resolving to

 secure something more definite in the way of income, he "seeks fresh fields and pastures new." This is perhaps no great loss to the profession, but it may sometimes happened that a young engineer or architect well qualified to do credit to his profession and himself is tempted by some temporary discouragement to give the whole thing up and try: something else. This would be most unfortunate, for it is no less true in the world of business than in the sphere of which it was originally spoken that, "No man putting his hand to the plough and looking back" is fit for the rewards of success.

Ask those whose success you: envy how they attained

-	the positions you despair of reaching, and when you have learned what difficulties and discouragement they

 overcame, you maybe ashamed to shrink from those which confront you -- Engineering and Building Record.

/	



 The well known Canadian sculptor, Mr. Phillippe Hebert, is at work on a of the late Sir George Cartier and a vigorous sketch of a group of Indians for  the Parliament Buildings at Ottawa....

The author of the design for a monument to be erected at Ottawa to the memory of the sharpshooters who fell in the northwest rebellion writes from England that the

founders have obtained an excellent

work will shortly be	

OLD ST. John's Gate, QUEBEC, (INSIDE) IN 1854

by their preliminary training to take highest rank in their profession, the special two years course in architecture has been discontinued, at Cornell University.

An Ottawa dispatch says: The resolution passed. by the Dominion Trades and Labour Council at London, condemning the practice of Government officials competing against outside labour by doing work in their spare time, has more interest for this city than perhaps any other in the Dominion. Complaints have appeared in the press here time and again of the unfair interference with various callings occasioned by civil servants employing their abundant leisure in underbidding outsiders for work. This has been especially felt by engineers, architects and other draughtsmen. One case was Cited where an architect had entered into competition for designs for the Toronto municipal buildings. It was alleged, over the signature of a reputable architect in this city, that this official competitor not only submitted designs, but also used the material of the department in which he is employed, and secured the assistance of fellow employees in office horns for completing his work. Last session organized labor had a delegate at the capital watching legislation its interest, and if the' good practice is continued, he may be counted on to have light shed on these practices at the next sitting of Parliament.



The Rockwell Company proposes to furnish the town of Collingwood, Out., with fifty natural gas lights, at 520 per light per year for period of ten years. But

less time than that?	-

It is announced that Hon. Tohn. Carling will shortly



pay a visit of inspection to the quarantine stations. In view of the prevalence of small pox and yellow-fever in certain districts in the United States, we hope that Mr. Carling will find every precaution being taken to guard against the entrance of these diseases into Canada

Here is the record for July as taken from the Inspector's book:



Two brick dwelling houses on Bay st., Hammon one brick dwelling house on Cherry St., James; one brick dwelling detached. Nelson, Ave., Hummill; one brick dwelling detached, Markiand St., Duflon; one brick dwelling house, Park, near Hunter, Martin; four brick dwelling houses, Carl Avenue, Nicholl; one brick cottage on Wilson St., Martin; three brick dwelling houses, Market St., Sullivan; one brick detached house, Markland St., T. Meade; one brick detached house, Main St. Moore; three brick dwelling houses, Napier, Gregg; two brick stores on King St., east, Balfour. _______________________

QUEBEC.



~Correspondence of the CANADIAN- ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



 MESSRS. J. M. Cassels & Co. have just commenced the construction of a leather store on St. Valier street, to which



they will remove their business in December next, from their Crown street store. The new site being in the heart of the great boot, and shoe factories will be found much more convenient for their customers. The new building will be 130 feet long, with a depth of 40 feet, and three stories in height, and brick walls, with white brick trimmings. The contractor is Mr. Charles A. O'Leary; the architect, Mr. H. Staveley.

Hon. G. l3resse is also adding to his already immense shoe factory by' putting up a wing running out from the centre of present building, The architect employed is Mr. E. Tanquay.

The whole of the front of the old Durham terrace, now forming part of the famed Dufferin terrace, is being rebuilt in stone, with

massive buttresses, the whole being done by day's work under the direction of Mr. C; A. O'Leary. The work will occupy the remainder of this season and most likely the whole of next season. The officers of the Board of Works superintend the work.



 OWEN SOUND. ____  (Correspondence of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



THE following work has been let:—Two storey brick wing, with out stone trimmings, to county buildings, for a gaol governor's



residence, cost $2,000 Chas. Crothers, contractor.	Block of two three storey brick stores for Mr. , C. Hall, ft. frontage x feet deep, cost $350 contractors, Malcolm & Green. Additions to store for W.B. Stephens, 30 x 27, one storey brick with cut stone

 font, cost, $1,000; contractors, Malcom & Green. Two' storey addition to store, brick, for J. M. Kelbourn 24 x 38 cost

$863; contractors, brick, W. H. Sinclair; carpenter. W. A. Green Additions to residence of C. Eaton; day work; estimated

two sores,

cost,. $1,000. for Mr. J. M. Wilson, two flat roof, size, 34 feet front by 40 feet deep, estimated cost

 Hill street school premises, let to A. Wilson, contract, 8333. Brick residence for Mr. Middlebro, two storey,

- 



The building trade here is fairly brisk in all its branches.' and if all that is now contemplated goes on, will last late into the fall, or winter.

will be

estimated on later.y

