<doctype type="text">



It was thus seated accurately with an even bearing and uniform contact over the entire surface. A leveling instrument was sighted on the vertical gauge rod projecting above the platform and the latter was quickly loaded with 2 tons of pig iron. No movement was detected until 2 1-2 tons were placed on the platform, when it settled rapidly for three-eighths of an inch and the loading ceased. During the night the settlement continued and had reached at least 1 1-2 inches on the following morning. There was some upheaval of the clay around the foot of the 12 x 12 inch column and, although the results were considered to entirely eliminate the misleading initial settlement, often due to carelessly applying the test load on an imperfect bearing, they were not considered as conclusive of the actual capacity of the soil, because the isolated area tested was not under the same conditions as a unit of equal size in the midst of a large footing.

This test was, therefore, supplemented by a second one, made under conditions intended to approximate more closely to those realized in the finished structure. A 6. inch pipe, with the lower edge beveled on the outside at an angle of 45 degrees, to a sharp edge, was driven about 8 inches into the bottom of the pit 20 feet below the curb and caused, as was expected, a slight upheaval around the outer side. Inside the clay remained apparently undisturbed, with the upper surface at the original level. It was assumed that the inside clay thus isolated and confined would correspond closely with that under the centre of a large footing, when the lateral forces might be considered to be balanced.

In the pipe there was inserted an oak piston, which had a carefully squared lower end and was fitted 'to the interior of the pipe for a length of 2 inches, above which the diameter was diminished sufficiently to insure absolute clearance. The piston projected above the top of the pipe and carried on its upper end a horizontal platform, properly guided between horizontal struts, loaded with pig iron, giving a pressure of 4 tons per square foot on the lower end of the piston.. No settlement whatever was detected from this load; it was increased to 5 tons without causing any settlement, and it was decided to be safe to load the footings uniformly to 4 tons per square foot, and the foundations were accordingly designed on this basis. They have been subjected to their full load since August, and no settlement has been perceptible by the most careful instrumental observations

The foundations designed in accordance with these tests cover about one-half of the total area of a 105 x 95 foot rectangle, and consist of separate and connected concrete piers and continuous concrete footings uniting adjacent piers and serving both to extend the bearing surface and as distributing girders providing for the eccentric location of the columns. In one corner of the building, where the centre line of the wall is outside that of the footing, the condition is one usually met by seating cantilever girders on the gri1lages with the wall columns supported on their overhang and the opposite ends anchored by interior co1umns. As this construction would have involved considerable delay for the delivery of the steel girders, a method was devised of securing the same effect with reinforced concrete, which could be made at a smaller cost and without delay.

The piers for the wall columns and for adjacent interior or columns were made integral, with footings

symmetrical about the centre line of the columns and the latter were provided with centre vertical webs and reinforced full length horizontal steel rods in the upper flange and with vertical stirrups proportioned to the shearing force, thus making a T-shaped beam or girder with a uniformly distributed load on the lower side and two concentrated loads on the upper side. The lower faces of the pedestals and footings were reinforced with single and double tiers of horizontal rods and the outer edges were beveled at about 45 degrees from a height of about 12 inches above the base to the top, 4 feet high. Rods 1-2 inch in diameter and 6 inches apart were used in the pedestals, and 1 1-2 inch rods were used in the girders. The concrete was made 1.21/2.5 with Portland cement and broken stone, the latter being 2 inch diameter for walls and 1-2 inch for reinforced work. It was proportioned for a working stress of 300 pounds per square inch in compression, the rods being calculated to carry all the tension with a stress of 18,000 pounds per square inch. The column loads were transmitted through cast iron pedestals to grillages consisting of single tiers of 15 inch I-beams, which distributed them on the upper surface of the concrete pier with a maximum pressure of 30,000 pounds per square foot. The grillages and pedestals were enclosed in concrete of a minimum thickness of 4 inches, and the pits around them were back-filled and covered with the 6 inch concrete floor at the level of the column basis.—The Engineering Record.



<article title=" WRONG CALCULATIONS OF STRENGTH " author="">

WRONG CALCULATIONS OF STRENGTH

The engineer's calculations of a building, bridge or other structure are based on certain data representing the properties of the materials used. These are derived from experiment, and as it is well recognized that they are not exact, a. very large safety factor is allowed; that is, the structure is made many times stronger than necessary. In an address before the Aberdeen Association of Civil -Engineers, Professor Barr, of Glasgow University, said:

"The materials used in a structure may not—usually- do not—conform to our assumption as to the strength and properties of those materials. In many cases the materials, as actually used, are not so strong as we are led to believe by the application of the tests described in certain text-books. There is no definite value that can be stated as the strength of a particular kind of material without many reservations, and many more reservations than can be conveyed in the ordinary books of reference. To take a particular specimen of steel or iron and to say that its strength is 28.93 tons per square inch has really no meaning. To say that its strength is about 29 tons per square inch may be true; but to state the strength down to the hundredth part of a ton is nonsense. Two pieces cut from the same material may have different strengths. ,The strength of any material may be affected by exceptional treatment which text-books may not have taken into account. Those strengths that are quoted in text-books as the strengths of materials are strengths that were got by the use of testing machines, when the specimen was pulled gradually and quietly. But if we apply a load to a piece of material and remove the load, and again apply the load and remove it, and so on, we will find that far less than 22 tons per square inch will break a piece of Yorkshire iron. The ordinary formulas that are used to find the intensity of the stress in pieces of material are usually very far wrong. Engineers should avoid discontinuity of form as far as possible. If they apparently strengthen a piece of material they often weaken it. Engineers should be careful to make things not only strong enough, but not too strong. It is dangerous to trust any formula without thinking out carefully what is implied in the formula, and considering in what way the practical conditions with which we are dealing differ from the practical conditions laid down in the formula."

