<doctype type="text">



tural journals regarding the vexed question of registering architects that scarcely anything new can be said upon the subject that has not hitherto been directly or indirectly referred to. Statistics have been brought forward to prove that in some States of the Union, where there has been put into practice some such system of registration as is now being contemplated in this country, the beneficial results accruing therefrom have been considerable. On the other hand, just as strong testimony has been adduced to show that in places where the registration system has been given a fair trial no good results have been obtained.

Referring to the outline of the project of incorporation for the proposed Institute, with which doubtless most of the profession are by this time familiar, we note that the "Institute of Architects of Canada" has as its object to facilitate the acquirement and interchange of professional knowledge among its members, and more particularly to promote the acquisition of that species of knowledge which has special reference to the profession of architecture, and further to encourage investigation in connection with all branches and departments of knowledge connected with the profession."

 Such an ambitious undertaking is certainly worthy of all commendation, and if the formation of the Institute will make for the improvement of the architectural profession in Canada it should undoubtedly be given every possible encouragement.

In the present condition of the country it must be apparent to everyone that the small country town practitioner is afforded very little opportunity of rubbing elbows with his fellows or even of realizing that they and he have interests in common, to the extent of interchanging professional ideas. Will the formation of the Institute better this condition? The membership is intended to comprise architects practising over the entire Dominion—a vast territory. With such wide jurisdiction and scattered membership, it is questionable whether it will ever be possible for the Institute to aid materially in the betterment of the profession without the aid of local chapters, acting in a capacity subordinate to it. While doubtless one great central organization, such as the Institute promises to be, would serve as a means of maintaining the status of those within the pale, legally and professionally, its activity might end there, and what is avowedly the main purpose of the Institute, viz., the interchange of professional knowledge, as quoted above, would be entirely overlooked, In the larger cities there are already chapters or associations which ought to work hand in hand with the central organization, if a complete network of influences are to make for the good of the profession.

The State recognition which the Institute seeks aims at improving the status of those who happen to be within its pale. The part the Canadian architect may be expected to play in the future history of Canada will be no inconsiderable one, and it is undoubtedly an opportune time for him to assume something of the position he merits in the public estimation. It is possible by a proper scheme of registration to materially benefit the profession in its practical as well as in its higher aspects. No one has a better reason for seeking every legitimate protection from the "Charlatan" than the man who, by earnest study and much

labor, has proved himself fully qualified to pursue the practice of his profession.

A considerable difficulty arises here, however, by reason of the proposal to limit the word "architect" to members of the Institute only. That the test of an entrance examination should be the means of determining membership is a feature of the new organization that will receive considerable opposition from a large part of the profession. While there is no doubt that anything looking to the better educational preparation of young men entering the architectural profession is highly desirable, it seems scarcely wise to so suddenly institute an innovation in the present procedure, and limit the title "architect" solely to those who have succeeded in passing an examination of the character proposed by the Institute. Good architects are to-day enjoying the confidence of their fellowmen and have risen high in the profession without having passed any examination whatever.

In any profession it is the standard of practice that is the vital question, and it is doubtful if this can be raised by an entrance examination, hastily prepared for and extremely limited in its scope. The fact of his architect having passed such an examination weighs but little with a client, neither does it guarantee for that architect any greater ability to provide for the public safety. On this, particular stress has been laid by some exponents of registration in the United States, not, however, to the welfare of the cause. The opponents of registration point scornfully at the unsavory history attaching to the Pennsylvania Capitol at Harrisburg, and contend that if, as so many claim, one of the strong reasons for registration is to ensure the safety of the public against incompetent architects making mistakes, the sooner that claim is dismissed the better. They contend that if the government is to be urged to license architects, it should also hold a moral and commercial inquest.

However, it must be admitted that there should be a better opportunity afforded students of architecture for preparation at our universities. It is to be regretted that in Canada the existing opportunities for academic training along architectural lines are shockingly inadequate. In Toronto University a 'tacked-on" course at the School of Practical Science is all that Ontario can offer. McGill, of course, offers better facilities. However, if the new Institute will endeavor to secure in Canadian universities more complete and satisfactory courses of study than now exist it will be doing a commendable work. Greater culture for the architect, to be obtained by a good university training, in the humanities as well as in science, will be an infinitely more satisfactory object of attainment than the hasty preparation in the rudiments of heating and ventilating a building that would be the general result of "cramming" for the entrance examination, as outlined in the act of incorporation, for which examination the average student would of necessity prepare himself by private study.

With its many desirable features, the act of incorporation as it now stands will bear some modification. In any case it is unlikely that it will escape criticism at the hands of at least some members of the profession, before it is finally accepted in toto, In the main, however, Canadian architects appear prepared to co-operate in any action that looks to the betterment of the profession.

