<doctype type="text">6	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS

" author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS

For the first time in its history, the Association held its annual Convention this year outside of Toronto. The meeting took place at Ottawa on the 15th and i6th inst., and so successful was it that what was regarded as a somewhat doubtful experiment, will probably become a regular procedure for the future. To the recently formed Ottawa Chapter, of which Mr.

J.	XV. H. Watt is President and Alderman F. J. Alexander, Secretary, is due much of the credit for the success of the meeting.

An effort will be made to organize similar Chapters at Hamilton and London and to hold future conventions in those cities, thereby broadening the interest in the Association and perhaps assisting to bring about the formation of a Dominion Association—an object which lies near the hearts of some of the leading members of the 0. A. A.

An exhibition of Architectural drawings and photographs, by members of the 0. A. A. and P. Q. A. A. and an exhibit of Sculpture by Mr. Hamilton McCarthy, R.C.A., added to the interest of the sessions, which were held in the new Carnegie library building.

Much interest centered in the visits to the Geological Museum and other Government buildings, the work of the Ottawa Improvement Association and the site for the proposed new buildings for which the Government has invited Canadian architects to submit competitive designs. The possibilities of the site were admired, but the omission from the conditions of competition of a guarantee that the successful competitor would be associated with the execution of his design, as well as the inadequancy of the prizes offered, elicited adverse criticism and led to the passing of a resolution that an appeal be made to the acting Minister of Public Works to have the conditions amended in this important particular.

The papers by Prof. Nobbs, of Montreal, on the Influence of Revivals on English Architecture in the XIX Century, illustrated by lantern slides, and the address by Mr. Wm. L. Price, architect, of Philadelphia, on Modern Architecture, were in every way worthy of the authors and were listened to with marked interest and appreciation.

The annual dinner at the Laurentian Club was marked by good speeches, good music, and good fellowship.

Owing to the nearness of the Convention to our publication day we are unable to do more than present in this issue an outline of the proceedings.

PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL ADDRESS.

<article title=" PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL ADDRESS.

" author="">The inauguration of the 19th Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects marks a new era in our history.



Hitherto every annual meeting has been held in the City of Toronto. To-day we are assembled in Ottawa, the capital city of our growing Dominion. Our members in Ottawa have long advocated this move. To-day sees the fruition of their desires, and to-day and to-morrow will doubtless reveal the wisdom or the unwisdom of the innovation.



I think I may say that it is the strong hope and desire of the Council that this Convention shall not only equal past ones in interest, but that it shall exceed all previous meetings in the quality of the papers under discussion and in the enthusiasm of those in attendance.



Another notable event in our history this year has been the formation of the Ottawa Chapter, an event looked forward to for years by the Executive of the Association.



It is confidently expected that good results will flow from this organization, that in bringing the architects of the Capital together

 for the reading of papers and fraternization the status of the profession in Ottawa may be raised, and that the Chapter will he a feeder and source of strength to the Association.



May we not hope that before long the architects of Hamilton and London will be similarly organized?



The advantages of contact and conference are so obvious that it is passing strange that architects do not make more use of' their opportunities in this respect.



It may bc opportune, if time permits, to give some thought to the question of the formation of a Dominion Association of Architects.



The formation of incorporated societies in Manitoba and Alberta, two provinces of the great West and of a local society in Regina is a proof of rapid development in matters architectural. The Association in Alberta has sprung full fledged into existence, and the Legislature of that province has empowered it to hold the exclusive title of" "Architect." The Act, however, makes provision for the entrance and permission to practise of members of sister societies on payment of the regular entrance and membership fees.



Quebec in the middle East and Alberta in the far West are, therefore, the pioneers in adopting this means of securing a better educated class of men for the profession. The Association in Manitoba has been formed on lines somewhat similar to our own, but lacking our provision for intermediate examinations.



If other provinces follow and obtain like legislation, some sort of Federal organization may become a necessity, as many architects now practise in or send plans to other provinces than their own.



In this connection it may be noted that a suggestion has been offered in a leading editorial in the London Building News that in the matter of the revision of the Charter and By-laws of tile Royal Institute of British Architects, and the movement towards registration, this revision shall be laid down on broad lines, enabling its various allied societies to become integral parts of its constitution — branches and independent bodies — each of whose members would be a member of the Institute itself. It is also suggested that if t is were done with the allied societies it should be done with the Society of Architects also.



This would raise the membership from two thousand at once to six thousand, a most influential body, with educational and other resources which would place the profession on a high plane and on a par with other professional bodies in the United Kingdom.



It may be of interest to state that the Society of Architects above referred to is proceeding to push its own Registration Bill in the Imperial Parliament to its second reading.



At the last general election in England a circular letter was sent to every parliamentary candidate asking him to record his opinion on the principle involved, and his intention or otherwise of supporting the Bill, if elected. Many promises of support were received, while only one declared against the principle.



At the recent International Congress of Architects in London the last morning was devoted to the reading and discussion of papers on the subject of a statutory qualification for architects, and a resolution was subsequently passed " That it is desirable in the interests of the public of all nations, and of the profession of architecture, that all Practitioners should have a statutory





The papers presented (5 in number) were prepared by Mr. J. S. Archibald, of, the Quebec Association, two French architects, an Austrian architect, and an architect From Great Britain.



In the discussion which followed delegates from the Association of Hungarian Architects and the Royal Victorian Institute of Architects, of Australia, reported that they were instructed to support the resolution. Architects from Cape Colony and from various Parts of Great Britain also spoke in its support —Mr. G. A. T. Middleton remarking that there had not been a single dissentient voice from any country represented at the



Congress.



Circumstances which were unavoidable prevented the official representation of the Ontario Association at the Congress, but our travelling member, Mr. D. B. Dick, attended in our behalf. and his brief report, published in the August number of the Canadian Architect and Builder, will be printed in the proceedings of this Convention.



COMPETITIONS. — I have to confess with pleasure that my prophecy of dissappointment in connection with the competition

