<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	- PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—NO.	231.				MARCH, 1907.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Competition for a Small Suburban Town House.—Design submitted by Sir Christopher Wren."





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Concrete Houses in Charles Street, Toronto.—Beaumont Jarvis, Architect.

House in Vancouver, B. C.—Parr & Fee, Architects.



	CONTENTS

Editorial .	.				.	33-34

A True Basis of Contract -		. .		-		- 35

Ancient Methods of Lighting	-		-		-	36

Radiator Efficiency -	-	- -	-	- 36

Ventilating the British House of Commons	-	-	36

Characteristics of Timber	-	-	-	-	37-38

Montreal Notes	-	.	_ .	39

P.Q.A.A. Sketch Club				-	39

Mining and Preparation of Material	-	-	-		42

Marble	- -	-	-	42

Building-Up Hints for the Builders' Exchange -	-	43

Bond Between Concrete and Steel	-	-	-	44

Preservation of Stone, Concrete and Cement by Metallic

   Compound of Sulphur .					.	44

Our Illustrations - -		.			.	45

Alberta Association of Architects	-		-	-		45-46

How a Firm of Architects got It's Name on		a Building			-	47

Civic Improvement in Toronto -	.		_	-		47

Influence on Color - - -		-	 -		-	47

Description of Design for Moderate Cost		House		-		x

Effect of Duration of Stress on	Strength	and	Stiffness		of

	Wood -	-	-	-	-	- x-xi

Toronto Builders' Exchange	-	.	-	-	xiv

Book Review -	-	-	-	-	-	XIV



At the recent meeting of the Tests of Sand Lime Bricks Association in

Sand Lime Bricks.<article title=" Tests of Sand Lime Bricks " author="">

Chicago, a paper was presented by Mr. E W. Lazell, Ph.D., giving the results of tests of over one hundred samples of sand lime bricks from fifteen different factories. These tests comprised 1:—Transverse test (including modulus of rupture) , compression test, absorption test, compression after absorption (this latter test being made on bricks saturated with water). In the samples of mixture submitted the fineness of the material was determined and also its chemical composition. The average modulus of rupture obtained was 446 pounds. The average 

compression strength in pounds

per square inch was 2,922. The average absorption was 13.16 per cent. The average compression strength in pounds per square inch when the bricks were saturated with water was 1,961, which shows a loss of 32.88 per cent. front their strength when dry. Only five lots met the full testing requirements of the Bureau of Buildings of New York, showing that a higher standard of manufacture is desirable



By a fire which took place on

The Hochelaga School Fire.<article title=" The Hochelaga School Fire " author="">

Protestant School, Montreal sixteen of the children lost their lives, and a lady teacher, in her efforts to save them, shared their fate. Two minutes' grace would have sufficed to save them but circumstance seemed to combine wit h circumstance to seal their doom. Doors in the basement, where the fire broke out, were left open, which might have been closed and so checked sufficiently long the suffocating smoke. The warning of fire was not immediately given to tile occupants. and the stairway had become impassable. There were no fire escapes from the upper floor, and children and teachers looked for

rescue from the windows. A. slight trouble with a horse and a short delay owing to street cars on the

road,	to per—

brought the escape ladders only in time

form half the work of rescue. The teachers kept by their children in each case and the children behaved well and remained under control. Chief Benoit of the Fire Department gave evidence that ''if there had been exterior fire escapes those children would have been living now.'' The city by-laws call for exterior stairs, or other means of escape. The Protestant Board of School Commissioners, when they had been called on by the City Inspector to provide means of escape. had objected to the provision of external stairs as being themselves a mere source of danger where small children were concerned, and declared that the fire drill practised in their schools was a means of escape more reliable than external stairs. In view of this the demand for these escapes seems not to have been peremptorily pressed. Though it makes a poor show in face of the actual occurrence, there is a certain weight in the School Commissioners' contention. It should be remembered, however, that escape stairs need not be, and, in the ease of schools, must not be of a steep and difficult description. In case of sudden disturbance children are not so dangerous to one another as grown-ups are. They may be nervous and lose control of their fingers or limbs', so as to) let go what they should hold, or stumble when they ought to run ; but they are not liable to crowd one another to the crushing out of life, nor to trample one another down regardlessly. They may be trusted to bicker down a reasonably easy stair in fair time, without more damage than a few superficial bruises to a few individuals.

All the world is wise after the event, but it behooves an architect to be watchful in his plans anti insistent on all reasonable provisions, so far as these can be made inherent in the very structures themselves and

