<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



position of a poll-tax upon any immigrant at the will and pleasure of the Governor-in-Council. As this clause might have led to a perverted misuse in the exclusion, for instance, of skilled labor by interested parties, your Directors brought all legitimate pressure to heat- upon your representatives in Ottawa to amend the bill by omitting said clause. The bill was read a third time and passed by the House of Commons June 16th 1906, without the clause complained of.

(2). Early in December following the Lethbridge coal strike, the Hon. R. Lemieux introduced a bill to enforce compulsory arbitration in certain labor disputes involving public utilities. It was proposed to compel the interested parties to come together to state their case, but by a curious paradox, reversing all experience, the award when given was not to be enforced, but left simply to "moral persuasion. The Builders' Exchange has ever been averse to strikes and their counter-strokes — lockouts, as being an unreasoning and irritating survival of the dark ages and since October, 1905, has frequently appealed to our legislators in Ottawa to extend the principle of compulsory arbitration, not only to disputes anent public utilities, but to all trade disturbances of the industrial peace. The national waste in strikes is only to sadly evident from the following significant sentence in the 1906 report of the Government Labor Department recently issued "During 1906 there were 130 trade disputes in Canada, involving 518 firms and 10,513 workers. The loss of time was approximately 343,800 working days

The secretary, with the approval of the board wrote at once to the Hon Minister of Labor, setting forth the futility of compulsory arbitration unless the award of the tribunal were legally

binding upon both parties and as there could be no enforcement of such award unless both contracting parties were equally responsible, morally and financially, that all parties to compulsory arbitration should be compelled to register under a general law of associations, making them liable to carry out all contracts entered into by their officers pro tem, or their predecessors in office. It was pointed out that we were a law-abiding people that if we had disputes with our neighbor on any other subject we referred the case to law and the judge decided such decision being binding on both parties but that directly it was a labor question, we relapsed into a state of anarchy associations did things collectively which individually would be illegal, if not criminal hence the need to bring all associations of whatever kind under the jurisdiction of the law. There never would be enduring peace in the labor world until labor unions had been compelled to assume complete financial responsibility for their acts their persistent refusal hitherto to do so certainly laid their motives open to grave suspicion.

It is worthy of comment that the three most prominent strikes of the year, namely the Western coal strike, the Hamilton car strike, and the lamentable affair at Buckingham, were the out— come of "International-Unionist" instigation. For the good name of Canada surely the time has arrived when Canadian brains should be fully competent to manage their labor affairs without going to Washington," as more august politicians we e went to do the old days. It is a trifle humiliating to feel our industrial associations are still the humble ''tail" wagged by the American "dog.'

<article title="(3) SECTION 520, CRIMINAL CODE " author="">(3) SECTION 520, CRIMINAL CODE. -- Your directors desire your personal efforts to have this dangerous and unfare piece of legislation amended. This is the obnoxious "anti-combine" clause. which makes every employer a criminal, liable to the heaviest

penalties, if he enters into reciprocal trade arrangements with others, while expressly exonerating all "combinations of workmen or employees" for doing the self-same thing. Your executive have respectively and urgently protested against this

species of pernicious class-legislation. both to our representatives at Ottawa and also by participating in an influential deputation to the Premier last summer, at which one of your Directors, Mr. Alex. Bremner, represented this Association. We ask for only one law for the community by amending section 520. either by omitting the excepted class, or else by making the act apply to all classes, without any exceptions whatever. Only a year ago certain Toronto plumbers were held up to reprobation and heavily fined lay the court for "fixing" prices vet the Plumber's Union. part and parcel of the "combine" took refuge behind the exemption clause of section 520 and escaped without even a magisterial scolding! As a matter of fact, the authorities have hitherto assailed every sort of "trust" except the labor trust, the most unscrupulous of all. If an ice trust or a coal trust finds some outsider trying to get along without it. it immediately silences his guns by underselling him But the labor trust, where it finds some fellow-laborer working for less than its schedule price, waylays him as he is returning to his family in the evening and gives him a convincing lesson in "the manly art of self-defence." It never entered into the mind of the coal or ice trust to prevent others learning the coal or ice business but the labor trust takes active steps to prevent the young man

	his trade,	supply of labor

learning	so that the	may become

deficient and the price of labor thereby raised far above normal.

<article title=" EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY " author="">(4). EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY. -- Your Board recommends your

careful consideration of an "Act respecting Accidents to Work- men," first introduced by Hon. H. Archambault, in the Quebec House on June 1st, 1904, and rejected at the time owing to the strong representations From mite large manufacturing interests, but now to be again introduced. The House meets on the 15th inst. , and Col. G. W. Stephans, M. L A., has publicly announced his intention of putting this measure through. You are earnestly requested to lose no time in putting yourselves in touch with the Canadian Manufacturers, Association, the Board of Trade, Chambre de Commerce and Master Plumbers' Association, if you have any regard for your vital interests as employers of labor, Your secretary has been advised by leading Employers' Liability Insurance Co.s that the passage of this measure would mean an increase of 25 to 10026013ver present insurance rates. As you are aware, the damages accorded to workmen by the Courts are in most cases excessive; their " contributory negligence" is ignored by "sympathetic" juries, and the awards are out of all reasonable proportion to earning capacity. We have also unfortunately to deal with a certain section of parasitical lawyers who make a practice of following up such victims of accidents to their homes and inducing them to sue for heavy damages on the basis of "no results, no costs," and such cases only a fraction of the compensation reaches the victim.



<article title=" TRADE SCHOOLS " author="">(5). TRADE SCHOOLS —The Directors desire to place on record their appreciation of the Hon. W. A. Weir's efforts in this direction. Skilled labor is all too scarce, not because of the lack of young men who would willingly learn a useful trade, but because o' the attitude of trade-unions, for the reasons above stated. Our lads debarred front acquiring a good mechanical trade, where they are so much needed, are driven to swell the already overcrowded ranks of clerks; and to-day there is scarcely a skilled mechanic here who has learnt his trade in Montreal. The problem of the unemployed has usually been stated — to find work for the man. Many whose duties bring them in constant touch with the unemployed would state it—to find men who will work! We are fast approaching the unenviable problem of- --The Man less Job So important is technical training for the future of our city, that your Directors will recommend an annual contribution from this Exchange to such schools, so soon as they are established in running order, without discrimination against any class of students, and free from any trades union conditions or restrictions. Such large sums are spent annually by our local students for technical tuition in American correspondence schools, that it would be folly to popularize any Proposed trade schools by offering free tuition (unless exceptionally), because what is obtained gratis is valued at the same low figure.

INDUSTRIALLY. —Your Directors are only confirmed more strongly than ever by current events in advocating most earnestly the ideal of the open shop to all employers. It has already obtained in most trades; it is becoming more and more adopted in the States; and although not practicable in all trades, it should be steadily aimed for. Public opinion will demand that the whole trade and progress of this Dominion shall 10 longer be retarded for want of skilled labor, and for the selfish benefit of certain narrow labor-organizations who wilt vainly continue to try to stem the oncoming tide.

In again wishing all the members of' the Builders Exchange a prosperous New Year, your Directors are glad to report a remarkably successful year in 1906, as will he seen subsequently 

by the financial report. As already brought to your attention in the personal circular letter addressed to you by the secretary under date of 26th December, a record membership has beet. established, rising steadily from 61 in March. 1905 (when your present secretary was engaged) to 96 on December 31st, 1905, and nearly 220 at the present moment. But we must riot rest on our oars The Board of Directors amid the Committee on admissions have hitherto borne the lion's share of the "missionary work" of obtaining new members; but it is scarcely fair that all the burden should fall on merely a few shoulders, and the Board hopes that each member of the Exchange will personally secure at least one new member before the close of January, so that we may be able to shortly announce the desired membership of 

There is no entrance fee and the annual dues of $15 are so small that we must of necessity either largely increase our membership. or else raise the dues, to enable us to occupy such premises in the near future as will be a credit instead of a disgrace of the prosperous and influential contractors of this city.

On behalf' of the Board,

	JOHN HERBERT LAUER,	R. GEORGE HOOD,

	Secretary-Treasurer.	President.



The report and statement were adopted, and the new directors elected were: Messrs. Andrew McArthur

brick and stone) ; [). W. Ross (Phoenix Bridge Company, architectural iron and steel) ; David McGill (builders' supplies). The following representative members of the old board were re-elected Messrs. J.

N.	Arcand (master painters) ; Alex. Bremner (cement) John Duthie (granite and marble); J. Lefebvre (master plasterers); E. Ramsay (expanded metal); Joseph Thibeault (master plumbers); with Mr. E. W. Sayer, representative director of the Electrical Contractors' Association. 

The work of Mr. J. H. Lauer was very favorably commented on, and he was re-elected by acclamation.

