<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER			213



receive their training in University College and not in the School of Practical Science, and should train for an arts rather than a science degree. The history and growth of Architecture, it is claimed, can be studied best by following it through a three or four years course in Classics, Moderns and History. True,

considerable	modification of these	courses would	have



to be made to adapt them more particularly to a course in Fine Art. The reading in Classics, for instance, would necessarily bc such as to treat of the bearing that Greek scholarship had on Architecture and Art leading to a knowledge on the part of the student of the later Italian and Gothic arts. That such a course, carefully planned and treated by a competent staff of lecturers would be of inestimable value to students of the Fine Arts must be readily admitted. Moreover, there might reasonably lie expected to result therefrom in process of time a Canadian Architecture possessing so fur as is possible distinctly national traits. .\t least critics could not then  cavil at the efforts of our best craftsmen and declare them lacking in a comprehension of what are considered the rudiments of the great Schools of Art.

A glance at the work done by the great American  universities in the Department of Architecture shows that in some instances recognition of the attitude taken by the committee of the Architectural Eighteen Club has already been made and a suitable course prepared. To quote from the Calendar of Harvard:

''It has been recognized that Architecture is essentially a fine art, the practice of which must lie based on a thorough knowledge of construction. Great stress has therefore been laid on continued practice in design and drawing and thorough instruction in the history and principles of the fine art of Architecture and the arts allied with it. Such knowledge as can he better and more rapidly acquired by actual office experience will only be touched upon in a general way in order to leave more time for subjects which can lie adequately taught only in Architectural schools.

The curriculum is 50 arranged that professional studies begin in the first year and are continued through four years. In the first year the History of Ancient Architecture and the study of the Elements of Architectural Form are taken up in such a way as to give the student a familiarity with classic form which shall serve as a basis for the subsequent practice in Original Design which continues through the following three years. The aim is to give students such a knowledge of the history of Architecture and of the growth and meaning of Architectural forms as may enable them to use precedent not blindly, but intelligently and with some freedom. The History of Architecture (with practice and drawing in its various forms) is continued through the second year and completed in the third. Courses are included in the general history	and	principles	of the  arts	 which

	enable the student	to understand	time relation of Architecture to the other arts and the relation of art of different periods to their social and political life. Without this knowledge the architect is not likely to use the forms of his art in an intelligent and scholarly manner."

In addition to the work as outlined above, which leads to the degree of B.S., Harvard provides courses

for those who wish to take the degree of B.A. in addition to the degree of B.S. Such STUDENTS after haying obtained their B.A. degree may obtain the degree of B.S. after at least two years' further study in time  Lawrence Scientific School, which school is under the joint control of the Faculties of Arts and Science.

 Facilities are also given at Harvard for graduate work in Architecture, including both advanced work in design and construction, and special study of particular periods of Architectural history. Graduates of other Architectural schools or experienced draughtsmen who give evidence of their fitness to profit by them will be also admitted to these advanced courses.

Time University of Pennsylvania, trio, bases its curriculum upon time assumption that "Architecture is primarily a flue art.'' To quote the Calendar, "the study of Design is therefore emphasized, the student being required to give to it and to its preparatory and accessory subjects an important portion of his time

throughout	the course."

A two years' special course is also provided fur  Architectural draughtsmen of experience. Such stud- emits pursue a definite course of study, arranged t(r permit the completion, in two years. of much of the advanced technical work of the four-year course.

Cornell divides its Architectural	course into four main parts: First, Construction. both theoretical and practical: second, Expression, or the technical representation of architectural or decorative ideas on

paper: third, Composition,	which includes the science of convenient and effective planning and the art of architectural nil and decorative design fourth, that broad field which the literature of architecture covers and in which are included the History of Architecture and many interesting and important questions which arise in connection with the practice of Architecture, and which often belong to the allied professions, such as engineering and law. As in Pennsylvania, a two year course in Architecture is also open to special students at Cornell.

Inspired by the manifest desire (if the Ontario Legislature to improve in every possible way the status of Toronto University, and assured, moreover, of the favorable consideration of improvements at the hands of the new president, those who have taken this matter inn hand may reasonably expect to see ere long a progressive Faculty of Fine Arts added to the admirable professional corps now lecturing at the University in Queen's Park.





The new chair of Architecture at the Montreal  Polytechnic School has been inaugurated and candidates fir admission to study were required to present themselves for examination on October' 15. The head of the department is Mm'. Doumic, a noted French architect and professor. Mr. Doumic will be assisted l)v Messrs. E. Dyonnet, J. - O. Marchand and J. Haynes.





Oat of sixty architects practicing in Johannesburg at time beginning of this year, at least thirty have left the Golden City to try their fortune elsewhere owing to the effect of the prevailing depression in the building trade.

