<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	79

TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN MONTREAL. <article title=" TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN MONTREAL " author="">

On April 25 a meeting was held in the Commercial and Technical High School, Sherbrooke street, which ought to have important results in regard to technical education in Canada. Mr. Alex McFee, president of the Montreal Technical Institute, occupied the chair. This Institute has for some years endeavored to attract interest in and support for its educational schemes. Dr. Shaw, on behalf of the Protestant School Commissioners, read the formal offer of the use of their new and splendidly equipped school in which the meeting was held. The following were the terms of the offer

"In harmony with the recent negotiations, I have much pleasure in placing at your disposal for evening classes. by way of experiment for one session, the premises of the Commercial and Technical High School on Sherbrooke street west, in this city, on the conditions:-"That you appoint and pay the staff of teachers

for such evening classes, including a qualified superintendent, who will be responsible for the proper condition and discipline of the school.

 "That you recoup the board for the cost of heating and lighting for such classes, and pay the janitor such gratuity as may be just for his additional work.

That you provide such additional equipment as you may think necessary for the purposes in view.

"We have now equipment and provision for sloyd or woodwork, typewriting, drawing, cooking and sewing. We propose to provide for chemistry and millinery.

"We have no equipment for electrical work nor work in metals. though for the latter we have a suitable room now vacant.

Mr. Charles Stevens, speaking for the Mechanics' Institute, announced that that body had voted five hundred dollars to assist in establishing the proposed evening classes.

Several persons attending the meeting were called on to discuss the scheme, among others who spoke being Hon. W. A. Weir, Hon. J. D. Rolland, Mr. S. H. Ewing, Mr. Jas. Kinghorn, Col. Gardner and Mr.

W.	E. Doran. Mr. Robert Munro, when called upon for the financial statement. explained that there were no finances, but outlined the proposals on foot as follows. In addition to the work for which the Protestant Commissioners' School was already equipped. it was proposed to add an electrical laboratory, to extend the capacity of the physics department, to fit out the metal workshop, and to provide for special branches in chemistry. It was approximately estimated that the cost of this equipment, including running expenses, materials and superintendence for one year, would amount to $10,700. It was hoped that even at the start they would obtain two hundred pupils, and that the fees might be reckoned at about $2,400. An equal amount might be raised by asking employers, whose assistants attended the classes, to contribute a sum equal to their assistants' class fees.

Mr. Munro then moved a resolution to the effect that the munificent offer of the use of the Protestant School ( Commissioners' school should be accepted. that a guarantee fund of $10,000 should be called for from manufactures in the city and that classes be

opened in September. After further discussion the motion was carried. 



Mr. G. W. Stephens, chairman of the Harbor Commissioners, suggested that twenty of the leading manufacturers of the city should be induced to subscribe five hundred dollars each to establish such a fund as was required. If the nineteen others could be secured his own firm would be glad to take its share. He thought the scheme was one that should be carried out on a large scale. Mr. Doran had suggested that the Mechanics' Institute, which was interesting itself in this matter. might be willing to realize $125,000 on their property in St. James' street and devote the money to this scheme, if they were to do that and get subscriptions to make imp $200,000, Mr. Stephens would himself subscribe five thousand dollars. He thought Montreal manufacturers showed a disgraceful lack of public spirit in not turning out in greater numbers to discuss this question. 

    Mr. C. C. Ballantyne said he believed manufacturers had only to he appealed to in a business manner and they would be glad to support what was in their own best interests. On the part of his company he would gladly subscribe five hundred dollars.

The fine school, which was designed by Mr. A. F. Dunlop, R.C.A., architect, was open to inspection during the evening the scholars and teachers of the day school were in attendance and gave an exhibition of teaching methods.



<article title=" EFFORTS TO PRESERVE ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL " author="">EFFORTS TO PRESERVE ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL.

Considerable adverse comment has been called forth recently in London by the recommendation of Mr. Lethaby, the well-known authority on Gothic architecture, that Westminster Abbey should be gradually coated with yellow-tinged whitewash, by which method line hopes to preserve the fast crumbling of the stonework, occasioned by the deleterious fumes of the atmosphere. In defence of his suggestion, Mr. Lethaby stated that in the middle ages whitewash was frequently applied to stonework as a preservative, with excellent effect. Accordingly, experiments have been recently made with the wash in sonic of the passages leading out of the Dean's yard, with satisfactory results. 

It has been estimated that the amount of sulphuric acid poured out into the air of London amounts to between 500,000 and 1,000,000 tons annually. When coal is burned most of the sulphur contained in it escapes in the form of sulphuric and sulphurous acids. Illuminating gas is also a source of sulphur supply, as is paraffin oil. The chemical effect of sulphuric acid in the atmosphere is that the carbonate of lime of the stone is converted into sulphate, the carbonic acid escaping. This action has for so long been destroying the stone walls of old St. Paul's that the mediaeval expedient of applying whitewash has at last been resorted to. A treatment that is recommended by some experts as being more satisfactory than the whitewash is to employ repeated coats of a three per cent, solution of baryta, applied as a fine

spray, in cases where the surface of the stone is very tender, and where the stone is firmer with a rose syringe or brush.

In the interim report of the committee appointed

