<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	197



by increasing its weight 50 or 100 pounds. as may perhaps be done by adding castings to the framework. As it required four men to carry the hammer comfortably, it proved too heavy to hold, unaided, while in operation, and was therefore suspended by a rope from overhead supports.

At first a pair of shear legs about 15 feet high were set up on the edge of the excavation and served as towers for an old 5-8 inch derrick guy which was  utilized for a sort of  improvised cableway. The cable was rove through a snatch block, which, being reversed, served as a trolley for carrying the hammer over the sheet piles. While driving the sheet piles on the sides of the excavation, vertical posts were in some eases substituted for the shear legs to carry the cable-way, and in other eases the cable way was replaced by a horizontal 2 x 12 inch plank 10 feet long set edgeways at a clear height of about 12 feet above the tops of the piles. This lank was supported at each end by a vertical post, seated on the top of the pile and having side pieces nailed to it to form jaws engaging the tops of the piles, so they could easily be slipped along from pile to pile. They were knee braced by inclined strunts spiked to the verticals and to the transverse horizontal struts.

The steam hammer was not in this case provided with a rolling support. but was merely suspended from a sling passed around the horizontal beam. In all cases the hammer was raised and lowered by a four-part hand tackle and required a vertical clearance of about 9 feet for effective operation. The ham— mer was operated by two men on top guiding it with the handles and a third man below to adjust the pile cap.

The sheeting and bracing was accomplished in five weeks by an average force of 18 men. All of the excavation was done with pick and shovel, and the spoil was removed in wagons driven out of the pit on an incline at one end. After the sheeting was driven the water in the excavation was kept down by two pulsometers – "The Engineering Record.''

<article title=" GERMAN INDUSTRIAL PALACE " author="">

GERMAN INDUSTRIAL PALACE.

While the building industry in the fashionable residential quarters of the western parts of Berlin has lately gone through a period of the most intense activity, there have arisen in the east of that city a number of buildings adapted to its commercial and industrial character. At the crossing of the river

Spree and the elevated railway, and in the immediate neighborhood of the metropolitan railway, five mammoth constructions, constituting what is called the

"Industrie-Palast." Warsehauer Brucke, have been recently completed.

This huge complex of buildings really deserves the name of ''Palace,'' the outside appearance of the facades. 20 meters in length. sub-divided into five sections of the most impressive architectural effects, being extremely imposing. with its weighty granite 

	square	stones,	its sandstone	surfaces and red tile constructions below and above tie fair main storeys and the gray slate roof. The right wing terminates in a massive tower.

	An  especially	interesting	feature of this construction

 is that any requirements of the trade and industry have been accounted for to a far greater extent than with any building previously erected in the Ger- 

man metropolis. While these headquarters of industry are readily accessible from the metropolitan and elevated railways, as well as from a multitude of electric tramways, and while the adjoining Spree harbor affords a ready means of transporting all kinds of goods to and from the building, a railway tunnel with a special track directly connecting to the state railways has been arranged below the transversal wings of the building. This track, which is the only one of its kind in Berlin, allows each occupant of the house

	immediately	dispatch	his produce from the plat- 

form arranged in the neighborhood of the tunnel. cranes being used in this connection from the upper storeys of the building.

Huge doorways are leading to large courtyards. All the rooms are well aerated and profusely lighted by high and broad windows. In order to guard against the spreading of fire, there have been arranged between the tunnel and the cellar some fireproof doors and gates which constitute an intermediary neutral compartment, while wrought iron blinds will shut off the various parts of the building, Special care has been bestowed on the arrangement of smoke discharges in the roof of all the vestibules. Fire extinguishing hydrants have further been fitted in each vestibule, as well as on the courtyards and in the tunnel.

A novel feature is the arrangement of two basement storeys above one another. A similar arrangement had so far been forbidden by German police regulations on account of the risk of fire involved. As, however, each basement in the present case is provided with special issues over broad staircases and through corridors, the police agreed to authorize the scheme. In order to provide for cases of fire, the more important iron parts had to be surrounded with cement. protecting the iron against incandescence and against cracking on coming into contact with water. While being exceedingly useful from the point of view if fire protection, this feature greatly adds to the pleasing appearance of the whole building, which strongly contrasts with the cold and monotonous character of many American office buildings: its subdivision into five sections is another means of avoiding monotony.

The building covers an area of 8,040 square meters. of which 5,720 square meters are actually occupied by constructions. 

In spite of the extremely difficult conditions of the ground, this building was erected within the relatively short space of seven months. -- Dr. Alfred Gradenwitz, in ''Fireproof Magazine."

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL AMBITION " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL AMBITION.

The buildings of the old world were more ambitious than our own. No such theatre has ever been built in the modern world as the Colisseum, with its diameter of 615 feet. its height of 164 feet, and its seats for 100,000 people. No wall has ever been built to equal the great wall of China, which runs 30 feet high and 24 feet thick for 1,200 miles; and the pyramids remain the wonder of the world in the twentieth century as in the first. Ancient Egypt had twelve palaces, each with 3,000 rooms; and the walls of Ninevali ran for 100 miles 100 feet high, and wide enough for three chariots to drive abreast along the top. Who builds so well and on so magnificent a scale today? 

