<doctype type="text">70	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



County Council to provide dwellings for workmen upon a self-supporting basis have been a conspicuous failure. Their tenements are either let to a class of tenants superior to those for whom they were intended or they are not let at all, and the financial return presents a delicate problem. This question has not been grappled with in England as it should have been, and when any alteration of the Building Acts is discussed the idea of making operations cheaper by scientific attention to details is usually overlooked, and the whole trend of proposed alterations is towards increase of cost. Architects realize that it is much more difficult to plan convenient dwellings, fitted with modern conveniences and sanitary arrangements upon a very small scale than upon one where the size of the rooms is not severely limited, but it is sometimes not recognized that these pinched plans applied to large blocks of buildings, result in structures winch have an excessively large factor of stability, an excessively large waste of space by reason of thick walls, and a consequent unnecessary costliness.

A singular universality attaches to the housing problem in the commercial and industrial centres of the older Provinces of Canada, a condition which can not he likened to anything at present existing in Britain or the United States. The fact of the matter is that Canadian workingmen cannot find decent  houses either for rent or for sale at reasonable figures. Builders are doing little to remedy the trouble as yet, because 110 definite plan has been decided upon that seems to embody the necessary features of stability, utility and cheapness. A pleasing feature of the present condition is the manifest dislike of the Canadian artisan to be housed in tenements and apartment houses. He appears to appreciate too much the privacy and seclusion of a private home, a characteristic which should he given every legitimate en- couragement.

Here, apparently, we have a problem where labor and capital may meet on common ground, and the  outcome will be important.



At the present time there is

Architects' Competitions<article title=" Architects' Competitions " author="">	much being written in American

Competitions.

	architectural journals anent 

the question of competitions, and opinions on the matter seems fairly equally divided. In every competition there can be but one man made happy, all the others being more or less convinced that injustice has been (lone them, and, so long as human nature remains imperfect, competitions. in whatever line they may be, can never bring unmixed joy to all competitors. It has been argued that select competition is but a trifle better than direct selection, and that limited local competition savors of trades unionism. This, it is said, ensures that mediocrity will be the order of the day, and that paid competition tends toward creating an aristocracy in the profession. This result scarcely follows. There are competitions and competitions.

The competition for designs for tile proposed Departmental Buildings at Ottawa appears to be arousing unusual interest among Canadian architects. Plenty of opportunity has apparently been given prospective competitors to inform themselves thoroughly as to the proper interpretation to be put upon the conditions and also to make any suggestions which in their  opinion would render the competition more popular. To give all competitors an equal chance the time limit

for offering designs has been extended to July 1st.

	are	large to induce the

The prizes offered	sufficiently 

best architectural talent in Canada to compete, and an unusually creditable display of designs seems likely to ensure a difficult task for the judges in awarding their decision. It is announced that all the designs will, with the permission of the authors, be placed on public exhibition after the selection has been made.

The call for plans for the new building for the  International Bureau of the American Republics is one which apparently is being conducted in all fair— ness. Ten architects of known repute are invited to submit plans and are guaranteed $1.000 each for their trouble. A general invitation is then extended to all other architects, of whatever professional rank they may be, to submit plans, with equal chance of acceptance if their work possesses sufficient merit.

 Surely such competitions as these, conducted under such conditions are quite legitimate and, while giving lime entire profession a chance to compete, take care that the best architectural talent will furnish a. standard that must aid the judges in making their award.

Announcement has recently been made of another  important competition which is being conducted along similar lines by the London County Council for the erection of a new city hall and offices on a site of about five and a half acres on the east bank of the Thames. The competition will lie divided into two stages, the preliminary and the final. The preliminary competition will be open to architects of any nationality and not less than ten and not more than fifteen of the designs will be selected by the assessors. The final competition will be open to the authors of the designs selected by the assessors in the preliminary stage, and eight architects who have been specially invited by the Council. R. Norman Shaw, R A., and W. E. Riley, F.R.I.B.A., the architect of the Council, will act as assessors in both stages, and the competitors ill the final stage will vote for the third assessor. Each of the competitors in the final stage will be paid twenty pounds.

Point is given the contention of some opponents of architectural competitions that the tend toward creating an aristocracy in the profession because of the fact that the expense of getting out elaborate

plans often prevents promising talent from competing, and leaves the field open to those who arc able to carry a large force of assistants and hence can get out plans with comparative ease. This phase of the quest ion is receiving some attention in Philadelphia, where the legal status of the ''notice to architects'' sent out by building committees. inviting the profession to enter drawings in competition will shortly be established. in a degree at least, by the suit of Rankin, Kellogg and Crane. This firm was one of the competitors selected by the Board of Education of Philadelphia when it was decided to secure a design and



plans for the new Manual Training and Commercial High School. The competition was held and the Board rejected all plans and returned them, subsequently appointing another architect. The complaining firm seek to recover the amount of fees that would have been accorded to the architect winning the competition. and also an equal sum which the firm estimates as the value of the opportunity to compete. In setting aside the competition it is claimed that the Board of Education violated the agreement that was supposed to have been made by the competition circular, announcing that the successful competitor's plans would be accepted.

Strict adherence to the announced conditions of a competition must always be adhered to, if it is to produce satisfactory results. On the whole, time principle of competitions seems particularly well suited to the architectural profession. provided that they can be conducted on conditions that will ensure equal opportunities of acceptance to all classes of architects, irrespective of professional standing or past achievements.

