<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

























<article title=" Standard for First-Class Buildings " author="">

Standard for First-Class Buildings



T

HE almost universal use of Coal Tar Pitch and Felt Roofs laid along the lines of The Barrette Specifications, for manufacturing plants, is an index of their ideal suitability for the purpose.



Many roof materials fail when exposed to the corrosive fumes which are always present in coal smoke or around blast furnaces. forges, etc., but the Coal Tar Pitch and Tarred Felt which comprise a Barrett Specification Roof are immune.



Moreover, manufacturing plants are usually of large area and permanent in construction. Both first cost and maintenance cost are important considerations in deciding the kind of roof to be used, and experience has demonstrated that a Barrett Specification Roof costs less than any other kind owing to its remarkable durability.

For skyscrapers—expensive structures that could afford whatever kind of roof is most desirable

—Barrett Specification Roofs are likewise universally adopted. That is because such roofs require no care, and conform to the requisite standards of fireproof construction, taking the base rate of insurance.

Modern reinforced concrete structures where fireproof material is required are best covered with Barrett Specification Roofs. The great new Ketterlinus Building, the first reinforced concrete skyscraper in Philadelphia. illustrated herewith, is a typical instance.

The best practice of the day is making use of Barrett Specification Roofs for all large buildings and manufacturing plants as standard as Portland Cement.

We shall be pleased to send a Booklet covering the subject in detail.



BARRETT MANUFACTURING CO.

New York, Chicago. Philadelphia, St. Louis, Cleveland. Cincinnati, Alleghany, Minneapolis Kansas City. Boston,

	New Orleans	London. Eng.

CANADIAN AGENTS:

The Paterson Mfg. Co.. Limited.	the Carritte-Paterson Mfg. Co Limited.

	Toronto. Montreal. Winnipeg	St. John. N. B.,	Halifax, N.S.