<doctype type="text">100                  CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">

MONTREAL NOTES.

The Parks Committee has reported in favor of THE purchase by the city of St. I Helen 's Island, with the restriction that no buildings except those of a temporary nature shall be erected thereon. This restriction is not imposed by the Federal Government, who are the present proprietors of the Island; it is suggested by the Parks Committee as a means of preventing commercial concerns from securing a permanent private foothold on the island. Of course this object is very desirable and should never be lost sight of. but it seems a curious way of attaining it by voluntarily making such a condition part of the purchase titles. Much stress is being laid by aldermen on the convenience of this island as a place to hold exhibitions. No doubt it is; but it is sincerely to be hoped that it will not be allowed to become a camping ground for every kind of cheap exhibition. The place is well wooded in almost every part. it is patronized to the full as a picnic ground for poor people, and this should always be kept in view as its chief function. If the city authorities will set about providing the island with such conveniences as will ensure pleasure, comfort and tidiness to picnickers, they will be doing a good work. They are at present to be congratulated on having improved the Mount Royal by the new outlook arid shelter, and also by a very neat little kiosk, which is near completion, near the bottom station of the mountain elevator.

























































<article title=" SOUTH AFRICAN WAR MEMORTAL, MONTREAL " author="">

SOUTH AFRICAN WAR MEMORTAL, MONTREAL.

oto by United Photographic Stores, Limited Montreal, Quebec and Ottawa.





Another public work which reflects credit on the city is the South African War Memorial, unveiled on the 24th of May in Dominion Square. Both statue and pedestal are carefully designed and picturesque pieces of work. The bronze battle scenes, forming side panels, are pictorially treated and not quite equal in decorative character to the main statue. The plat

forms and steps surrounding the monument give it an artistic basic setting. The large lettering of refined cinque—cento type is very happily applied as a decoration on the broad surfaces, and the same may be said of the manner in which the swords are introduced, though they do not form any natural division to the panels of lettering. The granite foliage, as it is very properly restrained in character to suit its material, might with advantage have been a little more restrained in its application. The sweep outwards from top to bottom of the monument gives it a pleasing suavity and grace, making it an agreeable object in a peaceful square, though perhaps not so suggestive of a war memorial as would a more sombre and abrupt outline.

The amount of dust occasioned by the destruction of the Temple Building (in which, by the way, the proud boast of total demolition in a month's time was not fulfilled) has occasioned considerable complaint. At this season of the year there are always (and this year more than ordinarily so) many buildings being demolished to make way for new structures, and this dust nuisance suggests that any who can devise ways and means of reducing it will be public benefactors. At the McGill Engineering Building many of the bricks were- sent by box-loads at a time down wooden chutes, which did something to abate the trouble, but seemed to prove a slow method of working. It may have resulted in the preservation of many bricks, but materials would need to be very valuable to justify this careful treatment.

The Protestant Board of School Commissioners have taken to heart the terrible lesson of the Hochelaga School fire, and are to erect two fireproof school buildings, one at Hochelaga and one on the Boulevard in St. Denis Ward. Th exterior is to be of brick and stone, and the floor construction of steel in concrete and terra cotta blocks. The partitions or wall linings are to l)e of hollow plaster blocks. Cement will take the place of wood dados and linings, woodwork being eliminated as far as possible. Two staircases are provided in each case, and external fire escapes, protected with wire guard. The heating is to be by low pressure steam, while fans are to be installed for introducing and extracting air. Works of this kind will prove a severe drain on the funds of educational interests, but necessity compels. It may be mentioned here that a couple of memorial windows have been dedicated in St . Mary's Church in memory of Miss Maxwell and the children, for whom she sacrificed her life in the endeavor to save.

Work was at a standstill for some time on the huge Linton Apartment Building in Sherbrooke street. The operations had been. more expensive than anticipated, largely owing to the amount of solid rock through which the excavations had to be carried. Financial difficulties also arose, but these are said to have been successfully surmounted and work is to be proceeded with. The total cost, it is anticipated, will exceed $800,000. It is expected that the annual revenue from rentals will be in the neighborhood of $100,

000.	The work at the Windsor Hotel, which had also been going forward without any appearance of undue haste, suddenly shot up two stories in about a couple

of weeks' time.

On the 21st of May the Laprairie Brick Company invited a number of persons interested in brick sup-

