<doctype type="colophon;contents">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	- PUBLISHERS.

OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—No.	232.				APRIL, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Competition for a Small Surburban Town House. Design submitted by Westward Ho."





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

House near Birmingham, England.—Mr. F. Stanley Mitton, Architect.



Dalkeith Lodge," Residence of Mr. Henry New, Hamilton, Ont.— Henry H. New, Architect.







CONTENTS



Editorial	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 49-50

Recent Amendments to the Toronto Building By-Law	-	51

Sir Aston Webb	- - - - - 

The Relation of Contractor to Proprietor		-	-		52

Death of Mr. Wm. Briggs -	-		-	-	53

Death of Mr. David Roberts - -			 -		53

Plumber Should Possess Versatility	-		-		54

Successful Heating by Hot Air Furnace	-	- 54

Steam Main Quickly Repaired		- -	—	54

Modern Steel Buildings	-	  - 

Mr. G. A. Reid. President	-	- -	- 57

Details of Old English Staircases -	

Our Illustrations	-	-	- -	59

Montreal Notes - -	- -				-	59

Rights of Canadian Architects	-		-		-	60-61

Royal Canadian Academy of Arts	- - -

Eighth International Congress of	Architects			-	 -	61

Convention of Architects -		-		 -		62

Architects' Competition -	 -			-	 -	62

Institute of Architects of Canada	-		-		-	62

Architects' Profits - -	-		-		62

Immense Building Stone -		-		-	62

licensing of Architects -	-		-		62

The Faience Mantel - -		-		-	63

Prospects for Pressed Brick in Canada		-	63.

Artificial Stone	-	-	- -	- 63

Some City Specifications for Concrete Blocks -	64

The Aesthetic in External Concrete Finish -	

Good Draughtsmen Scarce - - Municipal awards of Public Contracts - Some Preventives of Adhesion of Concrete to Steel -

Description of Design for Moderate Cost House	-	66

 Building Paper Combine		-	- -	66

Book Review	-	-	-	-	-	67

Competition for Store and Dwelling	-	-	67

Height of Buildings Regulated	- -	-	vii

Wonderful Deposit of B. C. Marble	- -	ix

Canadian Building Operations for 1906	-	-	x

Cement Consumption in Canada	-	-

Faber System	-	-	-	-	-	xiv





At the opening of the Royal

<article title=" Advisory Council of Art	" author="">	Advisory Council of Art	Canadian Academy's exhibition

	of Art.	in Montreal on April 1st, it was



announced in a telegram from the Hon. Sydney Fisher that the Government had seen its way clear to arrange for the establishment of an Advisory Council of Art. on whose advice the Minister of Public Works, on behalf of the Government. will make an expenditure for Art purposes. It is understood that this is to be a permanent Commission. The president of the R. C. A., Mr. George A. Reid, intimated that some of the duties of this Council would he the supervision of the national collection of art. the decorating of public buildings, the erection of public monuments, and the purchase of works of art by the Government. A good deal of the daily press comment. on the matter seems to take for granted that art consists principally in picture painting. It is, therefore, satisfactory to see that the president of the Academy has a broader idea of its sphere, and that architecture, the mother and guardian of all the arts, is to receive attention. Moreover, it is to be hoped that the Commission may give encouragement to an even wider field than would at first appear in the above statement. The higher arts, those that appeal to the more delicate senses, to the fitter emotions, and to the subtler qualities of intellect, will live only an artificial kind of life in our country, unless the commoner, everyday technical and useful arts, which our people practice in earning their daily bread, are to grow roots of their own in the intelligence of our own workers. The delight of the workman in his work is the beginning of all art. The delight to the senses, to the mind, and to the spirit, that work well clone conveys, is the end of all art. Old countries. with their galleries stored with the works of centuries past, and their



streets lined with great histories written in stone, make our new-world cities look barren and vacuous in comparison. The material needs of the body we can supply abundantly. hut at present we have to depend for elevating and refining influences on art in the form of literature, in which form it can be most readily brought to our doors. This is good in its way, but cannot permeate our daily life, and, in consequence, our daily manners, tempering them in that thorough way that can be attained by the continual striving to do well and beautifully whatsoever our hands find to do—to fill full the work of our bands with the intelligence that technique well mastered and purpose well conceived, realized and accomplished, can express. In order that the work produced in our country may achieve something of this satisfying quality, it is necessary that our workers in all crafts have the opportunity of education in their callings, such as will give them an idea of the size of the field in which they labor and the possibilities of the material in their hands and of the processes they employ. A good groundwork in drawing and modeling, and in the scientific elements of their subjects, is the a b c. They must have facilities to acquire in order to study further. How directly the finer arts are the flower upon the plant of the technical arts was well illustrated in the great renaissance, when so many of the world's great masters were recruited from the goldsmith's workshops of Italy. A great national collection of pictures would be a benefit and an honor to the country, but a number of collections of works of the lesser arts in different centres, whilst it would probably be much less costly, would in our present stage of cultivation be a great service to a greater number, and would be a stepping stone to the appreciation and production of the works that embody