<doctype type="text">92	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and texture: then the main field of the facade in a pressed brick, also of a grey color to match the stone and terra cotta.

The upper cornice is of copper left natural, and thc roof is also of copper, thc high railing along the outer edge of the main cornice forms the top of it into a comfortable balcony, from which a splendid view of the city and surroundings is to be obtained; this is entered from. the fourteenth floor offices. There is a large, flat surface on the main roof, which is also accessible from thc elevators and stairways.

A word should bc said descriptive of the foundation work put in for this building. When the bottom was reached for the footings as originally planned at a depth of about fifteen fact below the sidewalk, the architect found that, owing to moisture in thc ground, a greater spread would be necessary for the footings, so that the load would be properly distributed and that the pressure at any one point would not bc too great. As it was found that some of the columns would bc supporting a greater load than 1,000,000 pounds, the footings necessarily became very large in the case of two of the columns. grillages of heavy steel beams were inserted in the concrete mass of footings to take up the tensile strains, and at thc north side, where it was found necessary to spread the footings beyond the building line, cantilever beams of reinforced concrete were formed, anchored on the end by the weight of the inner columns and supported by immense piers of reinforced concrete kept just within the north line, a portion of the weight of the columns being thus supported on thc overhang of the beams beyond these piers.

Before these foundations were decided upon a test pipe was sunk to a depth of thirty-five feet below the surface to ascertain the nature of the soil, which was found to be of blue clay, and this was after verified by the shafts for the plunger elevator. thc stratum under the City of Toronto consisting of blue clay for a depth of fifty feet, then about thirty feet of blue shaley rock, after which a solid blue rock, similar to that found in the Niagara ravine, extending to at least a depth of 200 feet, where the hole for the plunger of No. 4 elevator stopped.

All the concrete footings were capped with large templates of solid, gray granite and large, well-set, heavy cast iron shoes, supplied by the Canada Iron & Foundry Company, to which the first section of the steel columns were connected.

The steel frame was erected with a heavy boom derrick placed in the centre of the building and arranged so that the boom swung out in every direction, and steel was lifted from the wagons in Colborne street in bundles, sometimes weighing as much as eight tons, to thc floor where it was required.

Throughout the whole of the work there was no mishap of any kind with this derrick, which indicated great care and careful management on the part of Mr. Greenshields, the superintendent of steel erectors, the Hamilton Bridge Works, of Hamilton, The structural steel work in this building was inspected and tested by Messrs. Chambers & Hone, New York through their representatives, the Canadian Inspection Company, Limited. Montreal, which latter company were also the inspectors on the Yonge Street Branch.

As soon as the steel frame was well under way the contractors commenced to put in forms for the reinforced concrete floor slabs, and two large steam hoists were put in the centre of the building for thc purpose of hoisting this material, which was mixed in the basement and sent up arid dumped into the forms, where it was tamped down in position. These hoists were afterwards very useful for the carrying up of masons' material. The brickwork followed very closely upon the concrete floor slabs.

The masonry walls of a steel frame building arc, of course, supported at each floor by the horizontal beams, but from outward appearance these are supported directly from the foundation

Ahead of the masonry work, and following closely upon thc concrete floor slabs, came the steamfitters, plumbers and electricians, with their forest of pipes, as, of course, all of these had to be built in out of sight This work was performed with great skill and rapidity by W. J. McGuire & Company, and when the other contractors were ready for the plastering, the plumbing and heating and wiring work had been installed and passed.

The plastering, which was also completed within a very short time, was carried through by Dancy Bros. Company, a Toronto sub-contractor, and Toronto workmen, in a manner which reflects credit upon everybody concerned. This brought the work to the point of wood trim, staircases and elevators in the meantime having gone into shape, and here the contractor's greatest difficulty began owing to the immense amount of woodwork involved in the finishing of the 600 odd doors and 500 odd windows, to say nothing of the stretches of base, picture mould and chair rail.

All of the office part of the building is finished in black birch stained down to a mahogany color and rubbed to a soft, even surface; this finished with polished brass hardware, gives the building a very rich and handsome appearance.

The woodwork in the banking room and the ground floor offices is of quarter-cut white oak with a Flemish finish. The above mentioned woodwork was supplied by A. Miles Company, and the brass hardware by the Aikenhead Hardware Company, both of Toronto.

A building of this height is necessarily equipped with a very good elevator plant. Before deciding upon the nature of this plant thc most elaborate and up-to-date plants in the United States were visited, and the experience of the owners of buildings having such equipment interviewed, so that, regardless of first cost, the safest possible type of elevator might bc obtained and at the same time cost the least to run and keep in repair. After the most careful consideration the architects and engineers employed unanimously decided that the Otis-Fensom Elevator Company's most improved elevators of the hydraulic plunger type should be installed.

The building is equipped with four high pressure, high speed hydraulic plunger elevators, and the equipment is said to be the finest of the size ever installed.

The elevators, when operating up to specification, will run at a speed of 600 feet a minute.

One of the elevators is so arranged as to handle freight and the effects of the tenants comfortably,

