<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	219



the steps the cement and sand should be mixed dry first, without any water. Mix thoroughly until the mass is of a uniform color. If broken stone is used in the mixture as an aggregate and this mixture is used to form the body of the steps and the finish put on with a richer mixture, the proportions should be as follows:

First mixture for body of steps 1:3:6, that is 1 part cement, 3 parts coarse sand, and 6 parts of fine broken stone. Mix sand and cement first, then add the stone and water and mix thoroughly again. Good concrete and cement work depends on good mixing. If two mixtures are used do not fill the moulds with the coarse mixture, but leave at least 3-4 inch for the finish and leave all of the projection of the step for the richer and finish coat. Both coats should, however, be put in within a few minutes of each other, so that it will all unite in one solid mass. The finish for the steps should be 1 :1 1-2; that is, one part of cement and one and one-half parts sand, thoroughly mixed, and put in place, well worked down with the trowel, and particularly around the step projection, or it will not fill the mould. The mixture should not be used too wet, so that it is sloppy, but like a good stiff mortar, and it should be thoroughly pressed in the mould by troweling. The finish coat should be troweled on the top two or three times at intervals, allowing the mixture to harden to some extent before the final troweling. After the cement has hardened somewhat the top edges of the steps can be rounded slightly with a trowel, or step edger, this being much better than to leave a square, sharp corner on the top face of the step.

After the steps have hardened sufficiently to stay in place, it is well to remove the form, as then any defects, such as the complete filling out of the mould, can be patched and filled in without showing when the job is complete. There are apt to be a few such places, and if the mould is removed these places can he readily filled and smoothed to make the job a complete one. Under ordinary conditions the form can be removed in two hours and the steps finished.

If it is desired to make the steps complete with one mixture, a good job can be had with a 1 :2 mixture, that is, one part cement and two parts sand. Then to economize on the cement and sand fill in the body part of the steps with broken brick, bedded down in the cement mortar. A large number of bats can be used in this way, just so that room is left for sufficient thickness on the top and the face which should be about one inch. This will make a good job, if the work is done with ordinary care and discretion.

Cement steps are handsome and cheaper in the end for everybody. No great amount of skill is required to put in cement steps against a bank, to a porch or an outside cellar way, and when put in right it is a lasting job, one not afflicted with rot as are wooden steps in such places. If a mechanic wants to do the work for himself the first cost will hardly be more than wood and the cement steps are for the best. Use plenty of the best Portland cement and have it thoroughly mixed. It does not pay to do a poor lob of cement work. Make it good and yon will have no regret.

Now a word about cement stone. Some machines make rock face stone, with the rock face starting so

close to the edge of the stone that there is not room to get the edge of a level on them to plumb up by. We think this is a mistake and that there should be at least 1-2 inch flat square surface on every stone before the rock starts. This would facilitate laying the stone true and plumbing to a line. Nothing can be plumbed with a level on a rock face. We have seen rock face stone with the face right to the very edge of the stone, thus making it very difficult to keep the wall plumb.



<article title=" DANGER OF RUSTY IRON IN CONCRETE " author="Brown, W. H.">DANGER OF RUSTY IRON IN CONCRETE

By W. H. BROWN, YORK, ENGLAND.



Many writers on reinforced concrete assert that there is no danger in using iron with a slight coating of rust; others emphasize the fact and cite experimental data to prove that a coating of rust is a distinct advantage, inasmuch as the chemical action between the concrete and rusty iron forms a coating of silicate of iron which not only protects it, from rust, but also removes any little rust that may be on the iron when placed in the concrete. The presumable advantage is the greater adhesion of the two materials in consequence of the roughened surface of the reinforcement.

A vital point, which will in time make itself painfully apparent, is here entirely lost sight of. Suppose rusty bars (and they usually are rusty) are used in the construction of a beam and are properly seated in the stirrups at, say, twenty points along its length, each stirrup being from 1 inch to 2 inches in width. how is it possible for the above mentioned chemical action to take place?

Obviously if the bars are properly seated in the stirrups, as they should be to be effective, the cement cannot reach the bar, and consequently no protecting coating of silicate of iron can be formed at these points, as is proved by the following experiment:

In May, 1906, being engaged in the construction of a large reinforced concrete factory, and designing others. I had reason to doubt the advisability of using iron even partially rusted. I therefore had inserted in a block of concrete a bar of iron covered with a slight coating of rust. firmly seated in a stirrup which was entirely free from rust, and its mill face undamaged and unscratched. Recently I have had the block broken up, and find at the point of contact between bar and stirrup that not only has the bar continued to rust, but the stirrup has commenced to rust also. It is obvious that in a few years the stirrup at least will be eaten through, with only one result.





FIRE-PROOF CEMENT.

A mixture of one part Portland cement, two parts of sand and five parts hard-burned furnace cinders, made into a mortar, will stand heat better than any ordinary cement or mortar.



PAINT SPECIALISTS.

The Canada Paint Company, Limited, Montreal. Toronto and Winnipeg, are a Canadian corporation who make a specialty of structural and anti-corrosive paints of every description. They also manufacture stains and varnishes for high class indoor work. Handsome color cards and sample booklets may be obtained free for the asking by any reader of this journal.

