<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	23



stone known as the one-quarter-inch size. This was thoroughly mixed quite dry so 110 mortar would flush  to the surface and well rammed in wooden forms made in the usual manner. The result was an evenly grained, finely honeycombed surface, of a pleasing, soft grey color, which grows darker with time and blends admirably with the park landscape. in placing, it was not spaded next the forum, it was too dry

GAL SIX	

to cause any flushing of mortar, so there is no smooth mortar surface, the imprint of joints between the hoards hardly noticed and the grain of the wood not seen at all. There is no efflorescence apparent on the surface anywhere ; there cannot be on account of the dryness of the mix and the porosity of the surface. The buildings are used as gymnasiums, is, assembly hails, reading and refreshment rooms, and as a rule the same grey concrete finish is given the interior walls as the exterior. In sonic eases a little color has been applied on the interior walls and the walls of shower and bathrooms have been waterproofed with plaster. The porosity of the surface makes it well adapted to receive and hold plaster.

This sort of surface is not capable of treatment with acid as a smoothly mortared surface, nor is it desirable. Consequently the only color obtainable is the natural color ot the cement covered stone, but which is softer and far more agreeable than the grey of the usual mortar finished surface. It is not suited for the surface of a pavement and is not impervious to water. Although it is evident time water enters the pores to a considerable extent there is no evidence of injury from frost (luring the two winters some of these walls have stood.

The same finish has been used for retaining walls arch bridges, fence posts, walls enclosing service yards, etc. In the buildings the thin walls were made entirely of this mixture, while in the heavier structures it has been used only as a fencing. Two reinforced arches of 60 feet span were faced with this mixture, but the steel was imbedded in a wetter more impervious concrete. This same dry mixture can be used for moulded stones when the mould is open enough to permit tamping. and of course it is eminently suited to block machines.

The dry, rich mix, with finely crushed stone, has been found specially suited to another condition where a sound, smooth surface was particularly difficult to secure, viz., for the under water portion of a sea wall on Lake Michigan. It was mixed very dry and dumped in mass in sunken boxes joined end to end, made fairly water tight. but from which the water was not excluded. With the finely crushed stone a sound, smooth surface was obtained (when the sides of the boxes were removed) where it was manifestly impossible to plaster or grout the surface and where spading a mix of coarser stone simply washed the cement away from the surface stone. On account of time variable water level it was particularly desired to have a sound, smooth surface.

Of the work described, most of the monolithic buildings, the arch bridges and some of time walls and paving, have been done by contract. All of time moulded work, the buildings made of blocks, service Yard walls, etc.. and all the acid treatment has been (lone by the park forces. Nearly all time various brands of Portland cement sold in the Chicago market have been used in varying quantities with equally good results.

In both methods described honest work and careful inspection are as necessary for good results as in any other first-class construction. Neither method cheapens concrete work. time acid treatment slightly increases it, while time surfacing with fine crushed stone adds nothing to the cost.

By time acid treatment, together with rubbing and chipping, all irregularities can he corrected. With the fine crushed stone surface all irregularities and

form marks are not prevented, but they are greatly  minimized.

In not all the work done by time second method were time results entirely satisfactory. The original specifications called for half-inch stone, which was afterwards changed to quarter-inch. Experience taught the correct quantity of water to use for best results. But altogether both methods are so satisfactory that their use will doubtless be continued in lime South Park work until something better is developed.



<article title=" BRITISH INVESTIGATE CONCRETE " author="">

BRITISH INVESTIGATE CONCRETE.

A joint committee representing the Royal Institute of British Architects, the District Surveyors' Association, the Institute of Builders, the Association of Municipal and County Engineers, and the War ( Office, has been nominated by the Royal Institute of British Architects to consider and report upon the use of reinforced concrete in buildings amid other structures. The committee is issued a statement outlining in I-mart the scope of its investigations, which will first take the form of an inquiry into what has been done already. It will ask the owner, or architects or engineers of such work for particulars, and how the buildings have stood the test of time. The statement continues as follows shall have a secretary who can apply to railway companies, owners of mills, private owners. architects, engineers and others who will no doubt place the results of their experience at our service. Some of us may visit works some have actual experience in the new system ; and when we have digested this know-ledge we can as a body express an opinion as to its usefulness, its safety, its permanence, a mid other qualities, which opinion we ma y fairly hope will be of value to our fellow—countrymen." 

An important '' Special Commission on Concrete  Aggregates" has also been formed at time instance of the British Fire Prevention Committee from among its leading members -mud the representatives of the public bodies who ume subscribers to time committee.

 The Commission is to report upon and define time aggregates suitable to-mr concrete floors intended to be fire resisting, having due regard to time question of strength. expansion, and the chemical constituents and changes of time aggregates.

The constitution of the Commission is not vet announced, hut it is known that Sir William Preece. K.C.B., F. R. S. (Past President, Int. C.E.), will be time chairman and that Mr. Matt. Garbutt, F.R.I.B.A.. A. M. Inst. C.E. w ill be the lion, secretary ; and, further, that tIme Commission will be aii eminently representative one. particularly strong in civil engineers of great pratical eminence and in public officials of high technical st standing. 

It is to be anticipated that the work undertaken by time Commission will lie of that thorough character generally associated with t he in investigations of time British Fire Prevention Committee, and that its findings will have considerable international bearing on time subject of the fire-resistance roof building materials generally. for the influence of the committee reaches far beyond the confines of our Empire.



<article title=" CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION IN ENGLAND " author="">

CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION IN ENGLAND.

A forward step has been taken for the wider use of concrete construction in England by the decision of H. M. Office of Works to build extensive additions to ti-me new General Postoffice in London on the Hermebique rein forced concrete system. The new build- ilol ing will cover an area of two amid a half acres o s a and will have eleven and a half acres of floor surface The  British Admiralty are also employing concrete in the erection of important buildings and other works. It is claimed that time growth of the new method w would be much more rapid were it not for the hindrance placed upon its use by out-of—date building 

