<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	217



filters is directly opposite to that which lakes place in the septic tank. In this ease the aerobic bacterial perform the necessary work, the presence of oxygen being absolutely essential for their life and operation.

This action consists of the oxidation of the ammonia formed in the tank. This is converted into nitric acid, which at once combines with the gases present to form nitrates. This completes the process of purification. the resulting effluent being perfectly clear and free from suspended matter.

guards and railings, in which field it still has a considerable demand, it is at this time known more especially among the building fraternity for its value in structural operations.

Partition construction of "expanded metal" and mortar is of two general types, hollow and solid partitions. The same material is also used to reinforce concrete floors and roofs. In the case of buildings, sheathed with rough boarding, cement plaster and expanded metal are combined to form an exterior fire

THE ROYAL ALEXANDRA THEATRE, TORONTO.





















































JOHN M. LYLE, ARCHITECT.





















































THE T. EATON COMPANY'S NEW BUILDING, TORONTO.

EXPANDED METAL.

<article title=" EXPANDED METAL " author="">

For eighteen years now "Expanded Metal" has held a high place in the estimation of Canadian builders, and that it still maintains this position is amply evidenced by the fact that several of the most important buildings erected recently in Toronto have been constructed upon its principles. Although originally designed and perfected with a view to a special use as a mesh for the manufacture of fences,

proof coating. Outside walls are constructed of cement plaster of expanded metal lath and iron studs. As a furring on outside masonry walls this method has also been extensively used; likewise for column fireproofing. The two buildings shown herewith, that of the T. Eaton Company, corner Albert and Yonge streets, Toronto, and Toronto's new theatre, the Royal Alexandra, have been fireproofed throughout by this method.

