<doctype type="text">112	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The compression of the brick, in the direction in which the load is applied, is accompanied by an expansion in a lateral (direction, which, as well as the direct compression, is a measurable quantity. The usual ratio of lateral expansion to longitudinal compression falls between the limits of 1-5th and 1-10th.

Density of structure is shown by the amount of water which a brick will absorb. Usually the absorption is reported in percentage by weight. A better method seems to be to judge

<article title=" SOME HIGH COMPRESSIVE STRENGTHS IN CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS " author="">

SOME HIGH COMPRESSIVE STRENGTHS IN CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS

same as in the preceding diagram, with reference to their position in the kiln. It will be noticed that the mud bricks from the bottom of the kiln displayed as much compressibility under a load of 4,000 pounds as the corresponding bricks from the top displayed under twice the load.

(No. 3) The variation in compressive strength is equally pronounced, according to position in the kiln, as shown by this diagram. The weights per cubic foot of the material are entered along the lower edge of the diagram. The highest strength corresponds with the greatest weight. This is characteristic, also, of other materials of construction, high resistance and high density of structure being found in the same samples.

(No. 4) The properties of a remarkable brick are shown on this diagram. So phenomenal was its compressive strength that it is fully deserving of a special diagram of its own. To St. Louis belongs the honor of producing this brick, which far



BRICK picks

STRENGTH UNDER DIFFERENT CONDITIONS

<article title=" STRENGTH UNDER DIFFERENT CONDITIONS " author="">











of the voids by the volume of water absorbed. Water enters a pores brick very promptly, less rapidly in the harder ones, but complete saturation is not accomplished even at the end of a week's immersion. Additional water is absorbed by exposure in a bath of hot water.

The compressive strength of brick extends over a wide range in values. The weight per cubic foot of the material, its density of structure, modulus of elasticity and compressive strength are mutually dependant features, and all are influenced more or less by the conditions of manufacture. The records of tests on compressive strength are numerous and generally available to all. ''Reports of Tests of Metals,'' 1894, and following years, contain many such results. Nearly

500 State, Territorial and other libraries are designated depositories for Congressional documents, whore these volumes may be examined by those who do not have them personally.



steel cast IRON BRICK AND CEMENT



STRESS — STRAIN CURVES





















































The accompanying diagrams have been prepared to illustrate features connected with the properties of brick, brick piers and other materials of construction.

(No. 1) The rate of absorption of some dry-pressed and mud brick, which were burned side by side in a down-draught kiln, is here shown.

The mud bricks are shown by full lines, the dry pressed by dotted ones These samples were weighed at frequent intervals during the early stages of immersion. It appears that a considerable part of the water eventually absorbed entered some of the samples during the first fifteen seconds of immersion. After this time absorption went on slowly. The upper horizontal lines indicate the amounts which were absorbed at the expiration of a week's time. The lesser amounts of water absorbed by the bricks from the top of thc kiln over those farther down will be noted.

(No. 2) On this diagram are shown the stress-strain curves of the samples of the preceding diagram. The greatest degree of rigidity is displayed by those from the top of the kiln, becoming more compressible as they are taken from the lower parts. The order in which these curves are plotted is the

exceeded. in strength any brick heretofore tested at Watertown Arsenal. This sample was tested on end, and reached a total load of 367,000 pounds on a surface of 2.45 inches by 3.99 inches in cross-section dimensions. Fragments of this brick have been brought here for inspection, and are held in great respect.

(No. 5) The laboratory records were gone over, and from them were selected the results which appear on Diagram No. 5. These tests represent the highest of their respective classes. They are what have been attained, and are presented as standards of excellence. The granite, of 51,990 pounds per square



BRICK PIERS — WATER STRUCK BRICK.



























































inch compressive strength, came from a quarry in Asheville, N.C. Ordinary granites range from 20,000 to 30,000 pounds per square inch. The cement rock represents the stone from which a natural cement is obtained from the State of New York, The brick, of 38,440 pounds strength, has just been described. Ordinary values for hard-burnt brick range from 12,000 to 25,000 pounds per square inch.

Portland cement, set under pressure, attained the maximum strength yet observed in this material. This sample was ex

