<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 

212	AN ARCHITECTURAL COURSE FOR TORONTO UNIVERSITY

<article title=" AN ARCHITECTURAL COURSE FOR TORONTO UNIVERSITY " author="">

It may not be generally understood by Ontario architects that an effort is being made by a number of interested members of the craft, assisted by some artists and citizens of the city of Toronto, to have established at the Provincial University a Faculty of Fine Art. Heretofore the instruction afforded the student of architecture at Toronto has been far from satisfactory, and yet the need for a revision of the present curriculum apparently has been recognized slowly. At the time of the recent investigation into the status of the University by the Royal Commission a committee of the Architectural Eighteen Club of Toronto, composed of Messrs. W. Ford Howland. A. H. Chapman, and J. P. Hynes, was authorized to make a study of architectural conditions in various American universities and report thereon. The work of this committee has been embodied in the

Report of the Royal Commission on the University of Toronto. ' ' a copy of which has just come to hand, This report is as follows:

To the	University of Toronto Commission:

"Sirs, When we appeared before you we brought to your attention the need, first, of a special course in Architecture, and secondly, of a comprehensive plan for grouping of the University buildings.

"Our position rests upon the broad ground that Architecture is one of the great educational and refining influences in life; it is therefore entitled to a place in the curriculum of the University and also to consideration when the buildings of the University are being designed and given their place in the University property.

First. 'A special course in Architecture.' This is required, as there are now within reach of the University a considerable number of Architectural students, who having started in offices, are unable to leave them, and give four years to University work; indeed for sonic time to conic, students in Architecture will find their way into offices before awakening to the value of an academic course of study.

''In Toronto Architecture has not been studied hitherto as an art but rather as a science. This is very forcibly illustrated by the University of Toronto Calendar for 1905-6, page 239. In contrast we quote the following from Columbia College Calendar: 

The University thus recognizes that Architecture is primarily a fine art, although requiring for its practice a considerable amount of scientific training.' Page 9. Bulletin, June 3rd, 1905.

''Columbia, Pennsylvania, Cornell, Harvard and other Universities have special courses in Architecture for students who have spent sonic time in architect's offices. The University of Toronto might inaugurate rate such a course, so arranged that students could attend lectures early in the morning and late in the afternoon, as do those now attending Osgoode Hall.

''These universities have ateliers or studios; we cannot too strongly recommend the establishment of a studio at the University of Toronto. The studios at the universities mentioned are in a measure independent of the university course in Architecture, they are generally in charge of a practising architect, who sets

problems that the students study under his criticism and guidance.

''In the course proposed here a student should have a Junior Matriculation in Mathematics, should have spent two years in an architect's office, and should be eighteen years of age. He should attend early morning and late afternoon lectures on subjects which are best taught in this way, and in the evening lie should work in the studio.

"In Toronto to-day there are more than 65 students in Architecture, whose only opportunity for study is afforded by the mathematical classes conducted by the  Joint Committee of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club. In the offices they simply do the routine work, which might lie called the craft of Architecture, while the Art of Architecture is left to the mercy of chance. The result of this state of affairs is deplorable, and can he rectified by the course we suggest.

"Second. 'A comprehensive plan for the grouping of the University buildings." ' ' Since Architecture is admittedly an educational t and refining influence, the University is the place above all places where the greatest effort should be made to maintain a high standard of it.

''European universities have never failed to recognize this truth, and Oxford has given the inspiration to the men who have recently erected the buildings of high Architectural merit at Pennsylvania and Princeton.

The University of Toronto is extremely fortunate in having as its original building a recognized achievement in Architecture. Unfortunately this model has not been followed.

The Hon. Mr. Edward Blake, when Chancellor of the University, in his address at the opening of the so-called course in Architecture, referred to the original building as an inspiring example, and to the School of Science building as an example of what not to do.'

''It is not sufficient that each building in connection with the University should be in itself a creditable Architectural structure, but that it should also harmonize completely with its fellow-buildings; moreover, the same economy should he shown in the arrangement of all the buildings on the University property as is shown in the design of each.

The importance of prompt action in the systematic arrangement of the University grounds cannot be too strongly emphasized at the present moment, since the proposed residences may be placed so as to cause

greater difficulty in carrying out a comprehensive scheme.

''It is essential to the University in preparing its members for well-ordered and beautiful lives to show order and beauty iii its external appearance."

As will lie seen, the committee have laid down time premises that Architecture is not a science, as its position under the Toronto Faculty of Applied Science

would	but an art,

	suggest,	training for which should

not he solely in structural engineering but rather in the humanities. With this end in view the committee are of the opinion that students in Architecture should

