<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" LONDON BUILDINGS STEREOTYPED " author="">

LONDON BUILDINGS STEREOTYPED.

A colonial visitor to England writes in the ''Builder'' his impressions of England and London from a builder's point of view, lie notes that the most remarkable feature in the vast growth of little two storey houses in the last twenty-five years is the uniformity of their plan of arrangement.

In continental centres which are developing suburbs there is a certain individuality in the small houses. Speculative houses built by the dozen are very exceptional on the continent. But in England a house built to suit the taste of an individual is so rare as to pass unnoticed among the tens of thousands of villas and cottages erected by speculative builders. He continues

As London is approached on the southern side the remarkable character of the modern English mode of living in suburban cottages is apparent. London seems to a foreigner like some monstrous overgrown village or collection of villages with interminable rows of little two storey cottages, interspersed with fields, commons and parks.

All that constituted a town or city in the old times and in the olden sense has, of course, long since been swallowed up in this gigantic layrinth, and the country thus transmogrified is inhabited by people who, to judge by the singularly stereotyped appearance of their homes. are content with its remarkable stereotyping of their domestic arrangements.''



 Many of the leading architects of the world have sent in their designs for the London County Council's new hail, which is expected to cost nearly £850,

000.

<article title=" BRICK TESTS IN VANCOUVER, B. C." author="">

BRICK TESTS IN VANCOUVER, B. C.

As a result of some tests made last month by Building Inspector S. N. Jarrett, of Vancouver, the following strengths were established. The tests (in tons) were all made on the flat side of the brick.

Sand lime brick, dimensions 2 3-8 inches by 4 inches by S 1-4 inches, six tests



1.	Crack developed under 18 tons; brick crushed under 38 tons.



2.	Crock developed under 15 tons; brick crushed under 28 tons.



3.	Crack developed under 23 tons; brick crushed under 39 tons.



4.	Crack developed under 38 tons; brick crushed under 35 tons.



5.	Crack developed under 28 tons; brick crushed. under 33 tons.



G.	Crack developed under 23 tons; brick crushed under 28 tons.



Concrete pressed brick, dimensions, 2 3-8 inches by 4 inches by S 1-4 inches, three tests



1.	Crack developed under 10 tons; brick crushed under 10 tons.



2.	Crack developed under 13 tons; brick crushed under 13 tons.



3.	Crack developed under 8 tons; brick crushed under 8 tons.



Red brick. dimensions 2 3-S inches by 4 inches by  1-4 inches. two tests



1. Crack developed under 23 tons; brick crushed under 36 tons.



2.	Crack developed under 24 tons; brick crushed under 33 tons.





WROUGHT IRON FIRE DOGS

	Artistic Designs of

Fire Dogs,

	Smoke Guards

	Work

	.	01 every Rind

8EE BULLETIN NO. 20.





CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Head Office and Works: TORONTO, ONT.

District Offices: Montreal, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland