<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	43

<article title=" BUILDING-UP HINTS FOR BUILDERS' EXCHANGES " author="Laurer, J. H.">

BUILDING-UP HINTS FOR BUILDERS' EXCHANGES.

By J. H. LAURER, Secretary Montreal Builders Exchange.



By courtesy of the editor of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER I have been invited to make a few suggestions for the benefit of the various Exchanges throughout the Dominion in general, as to the best methods by which to build up the membership in Builders' Exchanges.

The first difficulty to contend with is the general apathy of contractors and their failure to realize the value of co-operation. When the remarkable results achieved by organization of workingmen are considered for a moment none but a wilfully blind person could deny the enormous power of co-operation, locally, provincially and nationally. Employers act as isolated units, refuse concerted action, prefer to

run their own business '' and then fall easy victims individually to any union demands however extravagant. The employee contributes his weekly quota to his union

 far greater in proportion than the trifling

dues charged by employers' associations; while the employer despises or thinks himself superior to the very means which have proved beyond argument the strength and power of his own employees. If organization is good for the worker it must at least be equally good for the employer. Surely every intelligent employer (and we will assume that their intelligence is at least equal to that of their employees) must see that the labor vote to-day controls Parliaments in Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand and is even being wooed with pathetic however insincere

-—protestations of devotion by Liberal and Conservative alike here in Canada ; while the employers' vole, because weak, shiftless and disunited is absolutely ignored.

SUGGESTION l.—Impress upon contractors the need of acting in trade matters as a unit let them adopt a consistent policy similar to the Canadian Manufacturers' Association, acting in unison through out the Dominion in promoting or opposing legislative measures which arc constantly being exploited' both provincially and federally, and their annual fee will be saved many times over by having their representations respected at headquarters

In labor problems, lay down general principle of action. Have a definite programme to face labor troubles, and live up to it. From experience, both here and elsewhere, the writer is more than ever convinced of the value of the " open shop'' principle as the most just and unassailable position for contractors to adopt.

SUGGESTION 2. Take in the ''Open Shop'' (Union Trust Building Cincinnati, Ohio) for your reading room and act upon its suggestions.

Then there is the vexed question of price-cutting and cut-throat competition. Combines are illegal but common sense will surely appeal to every contractor to realize that no individual can expect to do all the work; there is enough to go all round without sacrificing legitimate profit. The better class of contractors will refuse to cut clown their carefully figured estimates at the behest of certain architects because of alleged or imaginary lower prices of other competitors, and the best architects will equally refuse

to lend themselves to hawking tenders given in confidence all over town with the idea of ''scalping'' prices.

SU GGESTION 3. Print ;and circulate a high standard of a Code of Practice People won 't live up to it all at once, but gradually it will make itself felt. Put yourself in touch with your local Architects' Association and insist (1) that bulk and separate tenders shall not be called for on the same job; (2) that general contractors in submitting lenders shall he required to state their sub-contractors at the time, and if these are satisfactory to the architect they shall not afterwards be allowed to be changed. The reason for this is obvions. The curse of contracting to-day is ''trading on sub-bids.''

To build up the membership of your Exchange You must show contractors that it is an advantage to be organized in such an association Naturally at first you will have more contractors outside than in. Endeavor first to secure the men who have the work. Enthusiasm is necessary for success. Start with your directors ; induce them to secure the good-will and adhesion of their colleagues outside; when you have secured the ''men who count" the others will follow appoint an influential ''Admission Committee,'' who are workers, to canvass likely or desirable contractors outside hold weekly meetings of this committee to report and follow up. Don't 't be afraid of printers' ink; nothing can make money without advertising except the mint.

SUGGESTION 4.—A large admission fee is not desirable (if any). The annual dues should not be too cheap; a thing is appreciated at its cost, and what costs little is valued accordingly.

A feature which has put new life into many Exchanges is the permanent exposition of building materials. The writer is strongly in favor of this extension of the permanent usefulness of the local Ex change. which has the advantage of making it valuable to property owners, architects and the general public alike.

SUGGESTION 5.— Correspondence is strongly urged with the secretaries of the following successful Exchange exhibits to whom the writer gladly acknowledges many courtesies Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and Cleveland where plans. rents and other details can be obtained first-hand.

There is, of course, the ''personal equation" of the secretary ; he must lot be one to sit in his office and expect members to grow up like mushrooms in a night or he will expect in vain If he is one to look for work and go after it he will not look in vain and will find plenty to keep him busy.

There may be many other and better suggestions from secretaries of longer and wider experience; these fugitive remarks are rather in the nature of hints than an attempt at an exhaustive analysis of so wide a topic. The writer has made no mention of an attractive reading room. with telephones and needful accommodation for stationery, as well as the absolute necessity of keeping daily record of ''advance notices ' of all new work coining out or in course of construction, for the simple reason that these form the essential elements of any Exchange worthy of the name.

