<doctype type="text">144	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



arranged between the pillars that carry the galleries. The galleries themselves are carried well out beyond this line of pillars, so that there is ample passage-way on each side of the cases. In this way good corridors of communication all around the museum are secured on each floor. The main stairways of the building being in direct proximity to the museum, the museum itself is not cumbered by special stairs of its own. Anatomical and pathological specimens occupy separate galleries of the museum. The front of the center block, which is on the lower side of the site, has the greater height, and here are arranged on the various floors storage room, stock rock, professors' rooms and reading rooms, both general and for the staff. These rooms overlook the campus and have a southeast prospect. In the rear of the center block is the principal assembly hall, with its platform against the rear wall of the museum.

The seats are in rising tiers in a semi-circle. A wide corridor is carried all round the outside of the sweep, and cloak room accommodation-is provided under the higher ranges of seats.

Each wing of the building is adapted to the conformation of the site. The west wing, which is the shorter, is placed at a higher level and contains the Histology and Hygiene departments and a small lecture theatre. The east wing is longer and contains the departments of Dentistry, Administration, Dissection and Pathology. A lecture theatre forms a projection on one side.

The secondary entrance from University street, and the more easterly of the campus entrances, are both in direct communication with the students' lavatory and cloak room accommodation, and also with the common room.

The elevations show mullioned windows, of the English domestic and collegiate type, pleasantly free from pretentiousness. Architecturally the building aims at the beauty that arises from the employment of graceful and pleasant methods of building rather than the decking out of structure with conventional display.

Messrs. Ed. &. W. S. Maxwell's designs, centering with the Royal Victoria Hospital, and probably approaching the character of that building more than any of the other designs, also provide more ample lighting than most of the other competitors.

The design of Marchand & Haskell, more concentrated on the site, rises high and is in this respect in conformity with the Hospital building.

Messrs. Hogle & Davis present a design in which the various blocks are arranged one behind the other in train fashion. The first block facing University street, contains theatres and laboratories. The second has an approach from Pine avenue, and contains museums and reading room. In the rear block are the Dentistry department and the pieces of smaller dimensions.

Messrs. Saxe & Archibald have divided their buildings into two fairly distinct blocks, with corridor connection, set at an irregular angle. The smaller building facing University street contains museums and lecture theatres. The other is of great length and breadth—the dissecting room is 64 feet by 63 feet. The approach is from Pine avenue, and the large assembly hall is placed centrally upstairs. The elevations show Ionic colonnades of monumental scale and Grecian character.

Messrs. Finley & Spence also provide for two buildings, but differently disposed in site and purpose. The smaller building, containing the library, is towards the campus. The larger building is entered from University street. Generally, a large square recurring unit of design has been adopted. Thus the library block is square and has been given a certain ordinance of architecture. South and north of the University street entrance a square block of similar design occurs as part of the main building. These recur at varying levels and spacings.

<article title=" SMOKE NUISANCE DECISION " author="">



SMOKE NUISANCE DECISION.

The smoke nuisance was recently the subject of a very ·important decision by the New York Court of Appeals. The question the court had to decide was:

In a country district suitable for country homes, does the use of soft coal in a factory so situated that thick black smoke therefrom, great in volume and dense in quality, envelops and discolors a neighboring dwelling house, causing much discomfort and some financial loss to the occupants, constitute a nuisance, when such use of soft coal is not necessary for the practical running of the plant and is not a reasonable use of the manufacturer's property? The court decided that while the defendant's business was lawful and not of itself a nuisance it was a nuisance as conducted, although a neighboring plant where anthracite coal was burned was not one. It was therefore ordered that the company must either burn hard coal or make such alterations in its plant that soft coal can be burned without causing offense. This opinion is particularly important because it does not refer to a smoky plant in a city, but to one in the country, where the house of the plaintiff is 840 feet distant. It therefore establishes the rule throughout the entire State that no boiler plant may be so conducted as to be a nuisance without being subject to a permanent injunction until it is rendered practically smokeless. Whether it is a nuisance or not must be determined from all the facts in each case, and this is likely to cause considerable controversy but the decision as a whole is nevertheless of much technical importance. It is fortunate that the upper court did not uphold the decision of the trial court, which forbade the use of soft coal under all conditions. The time is at hand when soft coal must be used far more extensively than at present, for the supplies of anthracite are running short, except from collieries which it is expensive to work. There is no reason why soft coal should not be used, except the practically universal lack of knowledge of American people concerning the way to burn it without producing dense smoke. It is sometimes said that smoke is inevitable where soft coal is used; the complete ignorance shown by those who make such a statement can be readily demonstrated by a visit to any large European city, where soft coal will be found in general use but without causing any greater obscurity in the atmosphere than in New York City to-day.



Geo. Oakley & Son, cut stone contractors, have moved their office and plant from 156 Richmond street west to 278 Booth avenue, Toronto.

