<doctype type="text">174	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



departments, etc.; and then charge the maximum rate against the old combustible and dangerous structures, for the comparative safety of which the city has to spend so much for fire departments and all that sort of protection ?"

Apropos of the successful attempt made by the Royal Canadian Academy of Art in inducing the Federal Government to appoint the Advisory Council of the Fine Arts, the following motion, looking to the appointment of a similar Council in Architecture, was unanimously adopted: "That the Institute of Canadian Architects respectfully bring before the Government of Canada the advisability of the appointment of a committee of architects who shall ad

































































J. W. H. WATTS,

Treasurer Institute of Architects of Canada.





vise upon all architectural matters of importance in connection with the public buildings and monuments of the Dominion."

Mr. Chausse also introduced the question of the responsibility of governments in the conservation of historical monuments. He thought it was not enough to leave the preservation of such monuments to individuals or societies. It was decided to instruct the council to write to the historical societies in Canada, expressing full sympathy with their objects, and stating that the Institute would be glad to join with them in any movement looking to the preservation of ancient buildings and monuments, and in influencing the Government in the preservation of the same.



A submerged city of great antiquity has been discovered by sponge fishers, who went down in a diving bell at Sfax, off the coast of Tunis. It is believed that the land on which the city was built subsided,

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

Illustrative of the designs of Messrs. Edward and W. S. Maxwell, of Montreal, which were awarded first prize in the recent competition for the Departmental and Justice Buildings at Ottawa, and which appear on our illustration pages this month, we publish below the notes appended to the plans and which will make clearer the architects' ideas:

"We have the honor to submit for your consideration designs for the proposed new Departmental and Justice Buildings, consisting of plans, elevations, sections, a bird 's-eye view and a plan of the grounds showing the location of the proposed buildings with reference to the existing Parliament and Department reference to the existing Parliament and Departmental blocks and the approaches thereto.

"These notes are intended to make their intention more clear to you with regard to planning of the various departments to be accommodated, in a manner suitable to their importance, and to their accommodation to the site available, with due regard to an abundance of light, air and ventilation, as well as architectural setting and effect.

"GENERAL SCHEME.—A careful study of the survey sheet and a personal inspection of the site results in the formulation of a scheme incorporating a reasonable acceptance of existing grades, the accentuation of a main axis; and the acceptance of the fact that the Justice Building presents a rare opportunity for a really monumental composition, capable of a distinct character and a truly Gothic treatment, in plan as well as elevation.

"The acceptance first of all of the fact that the ideal conditions of the lighting and plan should be accepted for the courts and library, hence the court rooms have lighting on both sides, a comparatively flat treatment of ceiling and plenty of light admitted at a low as well as a high level, These conditions are accepted by authorities as the ideal ones to obtain for important courts wherever possible. (See Gaudet's Elements et theorie d 'Architecture, 1905).

"The library is arranged with windows on both sides, and conditions of convenience for special studies are arranged for, while the large windows at the upper part admit of an ideal condition of lighting.

"The isolation of judges with a special corridor, entrance, etc., entirely distinct from any other entrance or department of the Justice Building, but still accessible from the main portion of the building, when occasion arises.

"On the ground floor of the Justice Building is accommodated the Department of the Minister of Justice, facing on Sussex street, and at an average elevation of 12 feet above the street level.

"The approach is by two entrances on Sussex street; from hence stairways and elevators give access to the first and second floors above, as well as by the main central stairs and elevators leading from the Parliament entrance to this building.

"The accommodation furnished is approximately 20,228 square feet of office space, with convenient lavatories, vaults, etc. The balance of this floor is devoted to the storage of records, etc., a receiving room for the library, and one for the restaurant and kitchen above.

"Under the whole of this floor is a basement to be

