<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	91

<article title=" SOME SPECIAL FEATURES OF TRADERS BANK BUILDING, TORONTO " author="">

SOME SPECIAL FEATURES OF TRADERS BANK BUILDING, TORONTO



In April, 1905, the work of removing the old buildings on the site of the present Traders Bank Building was commenced, and not long afterwards the process of excavation for the immense foundations, necessary for So high a building, was begun. The construction of these was very interesting, as it was found necessary to increase their capacity. owing to the moisture in thc ground. Old residents in Toronto say that within their recollection this very property consisted of a morass or swamp, and the engineers were instructed to take thc greatest precautions, regardless of expense, to secure for the building an absolutely safe foundation. In consequence, thc ground under

mild one, which allowed the work in all departments to proceed without interruption, and as a consequence the whole building was practically completed ready for occupancy by the first of October, 1906, at which time the first tenants. the Parry Sound Lumber Company. took possession of their offices

In describing the building briefly it may be said that to obtain a building which would have an imposing and artistic appearance, combined with thc greatest amount of usefulness and revenue-producing qualities, thc typical American office building style was adopted for the exterior, with details, and general character from the architecture of the French Renais







































































MAIN OFFICES AND ROTUNDA, TRADERS BANK BUILDING, TORONTO.



these footings is loaded to a much lower degree than is demanded by the requirements of the building laws of the city.

The same rule was applied to thc entire structure in all its parts, and a very heavy steel frame was designed. This frame, which is supported by thirty-six columns, includes upwards of seventeen hundred tons of steel, every part of which was riveted together under the minute inspection of a permanent engineer, employed for the special purpose. The first section of this steel frame was erected on the 20th day of September, 1905, and carried up at the rate of about two stories every three weeks, unusually rapid delivery being made by the contractors

The winter of 1905 and 1906 proved to be a very

sance. This allowed a simple arrangement of window spacing in that portion of the building where every inch of floor space was required, and thc bank premises, being at the base of the building, allowed a very rich treatment of columns and pilasters, giving great dignity and suggestion of strength. An extensive cornice at the fourteenth floor level, with the French mansard roof have, gave the necessary crown to the structure, and with the addition of ornamental belconies a satisfactory effect was obtained.

The materials of the exterior consist of a fine light-colored limestone, imported from the State of Indiana by Nicholson, Curtis & Vick, of Toronto, in the basement or first storey; then three storeys of terra cotta, exactly matching the limestone in color

