<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	99

<article title=" GLASS AS A MATERIAL FOR INTERIOR DECORATION " author="">

GLASS AS A MATERIAL FOR INTERIOR DECORATION.

Considering the fact of its being practically ever lasting, as well as its comparative cheapness and its capability for taking any desired form, and the facility with which it can be tinted or colored for special effects, it has always surprised me greatly that in interior decoration so little practical use is made of glass, writes Mr. Percy Russell in the Decorators' and Painters' Magazine.

I have always wondered why it should not be employed profusely and generally, instead of being limited to the conventional overmantels, with sometimes a certain amount of stained glass for certain windows and hail doors. Practically, glass can hardly be said to be very much used by decorators, and yet it has long seemed to me that the marvelous versatility of glass—if such a term is permissible—marks it out for the very material required, seeing that, properly placed, it is exceedingly beautiful, and that it is capable of being adapted to 'any scheme of form and color wherewith the decorator has to deal.

But glass. as I have said, is almost totally neglected, unless in the case of crystal gasoliers or electroliers, and sometimes in dining table decorations; in the latter instance, as I have seen, showing a river down the centre in clear glass, widening at intervals into lakes, with fern and plant filled islands in their centres. But as to any endeavor to use glass on a large scale about the house, for general decorative purposes, no one appears to have conceived that anything of the kind could be practicable.

Mouldings of beveled glass are highly effective if put in the right places, whether by day or night, when well-lighted up. A cornice of beveled glass round a boudoir could 11(4 fail to prove most effective and attractive. To keep it in perfect order nothing but dusting is needed, and that surely is a recommendation. Such ornamental glass mouldings in a variety of designs could be more securely fixed in sections than the corresponding plaster. which in the long run cracks and requires touching up pretty often.

When we come quietly to consider the subject, glass has really a very wide range for ornamental

purposes. It is well known as the base of. and chief substance in, the imitation gems now so familiar to everybody, and which are often of extreme beauty. Has it never occurred to sonic artistic decorator, when gazing at the display of artificial jewelry made in some of our shops, that advantage could be taken of the chameleon-like qualities of good paste for the adornment of mansions, while in a modified manner much could be done to beautify middle-class homes in this way? These imitation gems, personally worn, soon become impaired, but in fixed positions and unexposed to friction they would be durable, and could be judiciously employed to produce really lovely effects in ceiling devices, lintels, scrollwork over windows, around drawing room fireplaces and in jeweled panels for doors. In these flowers might be enclosed, and with bright butterflies and gaily colored moths would certainly render doors a delight to the eye. These decorations, of course, would never fade; they would really be permanent decorative effects, proof against all but fire and earthquakes.

Then it is evident that an obvious and important

advantage of the liberal employment of glass for interiors would be to give spaciousness to each apartment thus treated, to halls and. indeed, to wherever the substance was used to an unlimited extent. This in the case of confined flats. or what are known as bijou residences, would be well worth paying for, especially when the improvement in giving such apparent room was accompanied and enhanced by charming decorative effects as well, In the case of cramped entrances, too, the use of crystal columns, and crystal panels between them on the walls, would entirely correct the defect of want of width, and designs in various colors and forms could he so employed as to render the place quite a scene of fairy beauty directly the hall door was opened. Thus it is evident by the artistic employing of crystal in a variety of devices most brilliant, dazzling and splendid results could be achieved quite easily, and the appearance given to even an ordinary house of a palace of jewels, In the day time the interiors thus treated when touched by the sunshine would be beautiful beyond the power of words to adequately express. Prismatic glories would spring forth from the crystal surfaces and devices. Then it might be well said that—— From the art we thus created.

In the house glass-decorated.

From each surface then before us

And extending all around

To each seer's raptured gazing.

there would gather colors blazing,

Wheeling in prismatic chorus

Like the Peacock Throne renowned

Lighted by electricity the effects would be very much finer than even that Peacock Throne of the famous Indian Emperor at Delhi, which, by the way, wax worth some millions sterling.

Crystal

 cleverly'		distributed by the good taste of

tile decorator. would work wonders, and that at. a comparatively moderate outlay when we fully consider the magnificent results thus obtained.

I am well aware some will raise the objection that

this form of ornamentation is much too pronounced I and altogether too theatrical for ordinary dwellings

but, after all, that is only a question of degree. In the hotel Mtropole Northumberland avenue, Lon— don. there is a bridal suite of apartments generally reserved for very rich or elevated persons, and, as stated above, for newly married couples. It is a highly artistic suite of chambers. but decorative glass would have multiplied its beauties indefinitely.

However, all that I have put forth above arc but the merest hints and suggestions for properly qualified decorators to consider. It is obvious that if glass were employed in the manner that I have indicated its production would bc so enormously stimulated that the substance could be cheapened. 'and economic designs could be produced as in ornamental tiles, at prices which would bring these decorations within the easy reach of the well-to-do classes; while for the very rich, I think that when once the capabilities of decorative crystal were fully demonstrated they would prove in many cases a very great attraction, and one would vie with another in thus producing a house beautiful on altogether novel lines.

With our present advance in Decorative Art there is no (doubt that, with the general employment of glass in the directions indicated. marvelous effects could be obtained, and considering their wonder-working character, at only a comparatively moderate initial outlay.

