<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	157

<article title=" SOME VARIETIES OF STONE BUILDING " author="Brown, W. M.">

SOME VARIETIES OF STONE BUILDING.

By W. M. BROWN, C E

Article Written Specially for the ARCHITECT AND builder



Stone-building is of very ancient origin, and THE methods employed in its manipulation arc regulated by the purposes for which the buildings are erected. In the primitive times, except among the most civilized nations, stone-building was of the rudest description. Utility an(l durability were its characteristic elements, and not until the dawn of the arts and sciences, and their development in the realm of architecture, do we find any great advance in the more elaborate and refined methods of construction.

Stone is one of the earliest materials used for building purposes, and it is likely to maintain its prominent position, so long as it is accessible, and not too expensive. In Canada, however, much has vet to be discovered as to its abundance and quality, in order that it may become universally adopted. A very important consideration is the quality of the stone to be used for building purposes, whether it be of a hard or soft texture, and whether it be porous or almost impervious to a (lamp atmosphere.

There are generally two parts in the stone-building of walls, viz., ''Backing'' and ''Facing.'' The former portion is placed behind the latter, and is generally composed of rough stones, chosen by the builder, for the body of the work, and built compactly with the best mortar. The ''Facing'' of the wall, which is placed before the "Backing,'' is of greater importance from an artistic point of view, as it is upon its quality and adaptability for architectural design that it is chosen to occupy the position. It is the "Facing,'' and the maimed in which the stones are wrought, that designate the c1ass of work.

There are several varieties of stone-building and we would indicate some. of these by describing their completed appearance and method by which they are obtained. The class of stone known as ''rubble work' is opposed of stones of irregular size and shape that are placed in a wall, after they have been sorted and rough-shaped to fit against each other, and hammerdressed on their faces with the waller's hammer, as may be required for the quality of the work. In the rougher classes of ''rubble work.'' there is generally no selection of the stones, as the waller takes the stone nearest at hand that he thinks will suit his purpose, and packs in smaller stones between the larger ones. The rough nature of the work often leaves many spaces between the joints, both on the face and interior of the wall; these are generally packed up or pinned with spalls, which are the pieces hewn off the rougher stones, in order to get them to fit into place. The spalls should not be placed in the heart of the work, as they are liable to drive like wedges when the superincumbent weight presses upon them, and consequently the facing stones may be forced out.

Particular attention should be given during the building of rubble, as well as in the case of all masonry walls, to see that they are well bonded transversely, and not built up with too thin scales on each face or tied together by ''through stones, '' with the core or heating filled in with small pieces. This is a very common fault with builders, who depend upon

the mortar to give stability to a wall which, without it, would give way under its own weight. The stones best for rubble masonry are those that squabble freely, and such as lie in 4 or 5 inch beds. Basalts and those stones of a crystalline character are difficult to use as they are apt to fly under the hammer, but granite and sandstones work in well. Rubble may be described as either "uncoursed,'' ''irregular" or ''randomcoursed,'' ''worked-up-to-courses '' or ''coursed,'' according to the character of the stone at disposal.

There arc some stones, which from their intractable nature, and the absence of any distinct lines of bed(ling, are especially adapted for uncoursed rubble, while other stones have lines of layers or courses, and, therefore, should be used in square rubble. Courses of random, common or rough rubble vary in depth from 12 to 18 inches. Square-uncoursed,'' ''randomcoursed, irregular-coursed,'' ''sneaked " or ''squared rubble,'' are five names designating practically the same description of work. There is a certain amount of coursing, but it is not regular or continuous; jumpers are use(I, but no spalls, an(l if careful attention is given to bond, then the strength of the wall is considerable.

Random-rubble, with hammer-dressed joints and no spalls on face, often termed ''cobweb'' rubble, is chiefly formed with broken boulders or field stones. the joints lie in all directions, an(I it requires considerable experience and skill to make good work. In regular~coursed rubble, the courses vary frequently in depth, but are seldom more than 9 to 10 inches deep. Good stone found in thin beds in the quarry is commonly used.

In the rougher descriptions of rubble work, "lacing courses are used to give the wall additional cohesive strength; these consist of two or more wellbonded courses of masonry or brickwork laid at short vertical intervals.

''Block-in-course,'' or ''hammer-dressed ashlar,'' is intermediate between the best rubble and ashlar The coursing is regular, and the blocks are roughly squared; it is often constructed of shoddies, which are good stones less than 12 inches deep. The length of each stone is generally from three to five times its depth, and the breadth from one and a half to twice its depth. The exact proportions depend on the amount of resistance which the stone offers to cross bearing. The same rules as to proportions apply to ashlar work. Ashlar masonry is composed of large blocks, squared and regular in size, laid in courses varying in depth from about 10 to 14 inches; the be(l joints should be out of win(ling, but not smooth, an(l should never be worked slack (hollow-on-bed) and underpinned with spalls. such method of procedure concentrates the weight on a small area, and leads to crushing or to the joints flushing.

joints should be as thin as the class of work allows, but never. so much as to leave an insufficient bed of mortar to extend the pressure over the whole joint, as this would lead to flush joints. Sheet lead has sometimes been inserted in joints subject to great pressure,

