<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	45

<article title=" SHEPPARD APARTMENTS, JARVIS AND CHARLES STREETS " author="">

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

SHEPPARD APARTMENTS, JARVIS AND CHARLES STREETS,

TORONTO. —BEAUMONT JARVIS,

ARC HITECT.



The construction of these buildings (being eleven in number, 18 feet wide and 6o feet deep) is of Monolithic reinforced concrete. The greatest thickness of division walls is 4 inches in basement and continuing through roof the same thickness. Quarter inch rods were used 2 feet apart, isolated reinforced concrete piers 12' X 12" 14 feet apart ; with 12" X 12" reinforced girders on top at each floor to carry the joists. The Jarvis and Charles street fronts arc also a monolith, the casting being done in position on the works and as there is considerable repetition of arches, columns, etc. the expense of moulding forms was very small.

When it is remembered that there are 22 suites of apartments in this block, the cost, which is estimated at $45,000, seems reasonable.

<article title=" DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN SUBMITTED BY SIR CHRISTOPHER

WREN " author="">

DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN SUBMITTED BY "SIR CHRISTOPHER

WREN," MR. CECIL BURGESS, MONTREAL, IN

<article title=" COMPETITION FOR A SMALL SUBURBAN HOUSE " author="">

COMPETITION FOR A SMALL SUBURBANHOUSE.



A type of dwelling, such as might be seen in an English suburb, has been selected as a suitable solution of the problem. The exterior being carried out in red brick set in Flemish bond and halt timber work with " Rough Cast" plaster on metal lath and a greenish tint given to a shingle roof.

The window heads throughout ground floor to have penteaves of red tile, all other window heads to be made of 4' brick arches.

It is proposed to have a basement about 7' to 8' high under entire house, basement to contain coal bunkers, furnace room, laundry, kitchen, larder and one sleeping room and toilet room either for gardener or maid.

The living room on ground floor will have wood wainscoting and dark green stained burlap panels and beamed ceiling. The finish of this room will be of natural oak.

All other rooms on this and bedroom floor to be finished in white wood, enamel painted.

The floors throughout living room to be hardwood and the basement floor to be cemented.

The bathroom will have a Keene's cement dado and jointed to imitate tile and will be white enamel painted.



<article title=" ALBERTA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ALBERTA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

Following are the' provisions of the Act assented to by the Legislature of Alberta on May 8th, 1906, incorporating the above Association

Whereas it is deemed expedient for the bettor protection of the public interests in the erection of public and private buildings in the Province of Alberta, and in order to enable persons requiring professional aid in architecture, to distinguish between qualified and unqualified architects, and to ensure a standard of efficiency in the persons practising the

profession of architecture in the Province, and for the furtherance and advancement of the art of architecture

And whereas the persons hereinafter named have, by petition, set forth that it is desirable that they, together with such other persons as may be hereafter associated with them be incorporated by the name of '' The Alberta Association of Architects,'' having for its objects the acquirement and interchange of professional knowledge amongst its] members, and more particularly the acquisition of that species of knowledge which shall promote the artistic, scientific and practical efficiency of the profession of architecture;

Therefore, His Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislature of Alberta, enacts as follows:

1.	This Act may he cited as ' ' The Alberta Architects Act.''

2.	R. Percy Barnes, Edmonton; H. A. Magoon, Edmonton Jas. E. Wise, Edmonton F. Deggendorfer, Edmonton ; E. C. Hopkins, Edmonton; H. D. Johnson, Edmonton; W. M Dodd, Calgary; W. Stanley Bates, Calgary; Gilbert Hodgson, Calgary; J. Llewellyn Wilson, Calgary; G. M. Lang, CE., Calgary; K. G. Gorden, Calgary; F. J. Lawson, Calgary; J. J.

o	Gaia, Calgary; Alex. Pirie, Calgary; James A. Macdonald, Lethbridge Wm. S. Williams, Medicine Hat, and all other persons who may be hereafter associated with them, shall be, and are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate under the name of ' ' The Alberta Association of Architects ''hereinafter referred to as the ' ' Association.''

3.	The said association shall have power:

(1)	To acquire and hold all lands and property necessary and required, in order to carry out the objects and purposes for which incorporation is sought, and to alienate the same at pleasure and others to acquire;

Provided that the annual value of the real estate, held at any time for the actual use of the association, shall not exceed five thousand dollars; and the said association shall also have power to sue and be sued, and implead in their corporate name.

(2)	To make and pass by-laws in accordance with this Act, for the direction and 

management of the association; the admission to the study and practice of the profession of architecture and all rules that may be deemed necessary for the maintenance of the dignity and honor of the said profession, and alter or amend the same when deemed advisable; provided that no such by-laws or amendments thereto shall be valid or take effect until approved by the Lieutenant-Governor

in—Council. 



4.	The head office of the association shall be in the city or Edmonton.



5.	The said association shall be governed by a council, hereinafter referred to as the ' ' Council, ' consisting of a

dent, two vice-presidents, (1) a secretary and a treasurer, and six members, a] I of whom shall be members of the association and shall he elected annually in the manner provided for in the by-laws of the association.

The first council to consist of the first eleven persons named in the first section of this Act; and they shall hold office until their successors are elected.

6. The said council shall meet at the city of Edmonton within one month after the incorporation of the association for the purpose of organization.

They shall make such by-laws as may be necessary for the government of the association subject to ratification at the first annual meeting of the association.

7.	The council shall, through their secretary, give notice in The Alberta Official Gazette of the completion of its organization whereupon any person practising the profession of architecture within this Province, on the coming into force of this Act, shall, upon payment of the proper fees in their behalf, become a member of the association.

(2)	Any person who had regularly attended an architect's office during four years, at the time or the coming into force of this Act, shall be entitled to l)e registered as a member of the association by observing the above formalities.



The council may also admit to membership all members of associations of architects in the sister Provinces, also members of the Royal Institute of British Architects, and of foreign associations of architects of equal standing on their presenting their credentials, upon payment of the proper fees, and the Lieutenant-Governor-in-Council may, at any time, by Order-in-Council, declare any association of architects to be an association whose members shall be admitted to practice under this section.

Architects not members of these associations who shall have practiced for five years, shall bc admitted without serving as students, but shall be required to pass the final examination.



8.	Any other person who applies for admission to registration as an architect, after the coining into force of this Act, shall not be less than twenty-one years of age, and shall have served as a student not less than four years with a principal or principals, entitled to register under this Act. or with any other principal or principals approved by the council, and have passed such qualifying examinations as may be required

