<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	53



contracts, sometimes, an inspector is constantly engaged to superintend the work, and is empowered to cause to be altered, replaced or rejected, all defective material or workmanship. This is a most satisfactory condition to be attached to the contract, and well repays the extra expenditure entailed. But, even beyond this, an "arbiter" is sometimes appointed, who is generally an expert in building operations, and whose judgment may be called upon in extreme cases of dispute. His decision is described as final in regard to the carrying out of every particular in the contract and specification, and the satisfactory completion of the work to all concerned.

All these conditions, which must be stated distinctly in the contract, are the basis of relation between the contractor and proprietor. But the proprietor must be bound in some measure to supply proper and satisfactory materials that shall stand the test of durability and permanence in the construction of the building, which question not only affects the contractor, but also the safety of the general public. For, should there be stipulated an inferior class of material that would not stand these tests, then accidents of a serious character might occur. To prevent in some measure their occurrence, there is generally consolidated a "guild court" in large European cities, where the architect 's plans are submitted for examination and approval or rejection. The referees on the bench are in general prominent men in the building trade, who are presided over by a "dean," or chairman. His office, along with these gentlemen, is to consult the Master of Works or City Architect regarding the plans submitted, to examine whether they meet all the requirements described in the Buildings Regulations Act, and, if necessary, cause alterations to be made on the plans, before a "lining" be granted. This is also an excellent institution in that it affects both a contractor and proprietor in the erection of buildings, and gives them confidence that, if everything is carried through according to the law, all will be well.

But there are also city inspectors of buildings, who may call at any time to examine the operations, and if there be any failure to meet the requirements, it may be a serious matter for both contractor and proprietor. Penalties are often imposed upon the deings have to be pulled down and reconstructed.

linquents. Besides, sometimes portions of the build-These are some of the prominent features in connection with the relation of contractor and proprietor, in order to ensure mutual harmony between both as to the faithful and satisfactory completion of the building. If these be carefully attended to and fulfilled, not only may these objects be attained and the safety of the public be protected, but a building will be erected that is both well adapted for the purposes intended and a credit alike to contractor and proprietor.

<article title=" DEATH OF MR. WM. BRIGGS " author="">

DEATH OF MR. WM. BRIGGS.

At the advanced age of 88 years, Mr. William Briggs, a retired builder and early pioneer of Toronto, passed away on Friday, April 12th, at his late residence, 9 Maitland street. Deceased was a native of Hull, Yorkshire, Eng., and came to Toronto nearly 65 years ago. He was a member of the York Pioneers' Society, and also a life member of St. George's Society. Twenty-five years ago Mr. Briggs retired from active business, but had been unusually well up to three years, when he was knocked down by a street car, from the effects of which accident he never fully recovered. Mr. Briggs was a staunch Conservative in politics, and was a warm personal friend of Sir John A. Macdonald. The late S. R. Briggs, contractor, was a son of deceased. Two children survive, Mrs. W. A. Lyon and Mr. G. H. Briggs, both of Toronto.

<article title=" NEW USE FOR SUGAR " author="">

NEW USE FOR SUGAR.

Experiments have recently been made to prove that sugar is a valuable ingredient in mortar and cement.

DEATH OF MR. DAVID ROBERTS.

A prominent architect of the city, and one who has left behind him many monuments of his artistic taste, passed away on Wednesday, April 10th, at his late residence, 480 Huron street, Toronto. Mr. Roberts was in his sixty-second year, and had spent practically all his life in the city. He was the architect for the palatial residence of the late George Gooderham on Bloor street, and also designed that of the late Thomas G. Blackstock, immediately north of it. In private life he was a man of retiring disposition,

<article title=" DEATH OF MR. DAVID ROBERTS." author="">













































THE LATE MR. DAVID ROBERTS.





but, nevertheless, had a wide circle of friends. He was also a member of many of Toronto's leading clubs, and was a past president of the Toronto Rowing Club.

Mr. Roberts was unmarried, and is survived by one brother, Mr. Robert Roberts, of Sparta, and three sisters, Mrs. G. A. Plilp, of St. Thomas; Mrs. J. A. Philp, of Sparta, and Miss Florence, who resided with









































THE LATE MR. Wm. BRIGGS.





him. One brother and one sister predeceased him, Mr. Thos. Roberts, of Sparta, and Mrs. P. 5. Fur-ness, of Oakville.



In consequence of the growing local demand for building material a company of Strathcona business men have organized to establish another brick manufactory in that town. Machinery for the new plant is already ordered and will be rushed forward as quickly as possible. Mr. E. A. East who has had many years experience as manager of brick making establishments in England has been engaged to install the machinery and operate the new yard.

