<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	203



militia. The Government should not shirk its responsibility in this regard and the architectural profession should d not desire powers which rightly do not belong to it, and which therefore must ultimately prevent it from attaining its highest ideals.

What would he thought of a Government who, desirous of maintaining a high standard of morality in the community, should think the way to accomplish it would be to delegate its powers and that of its  police force to a ''moral order league" or to the prohibitionalists? 

Yours truly,



J. C. B. Horwood.





<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

The designs on our illustration pages this month are those of Messrs. Darling & Pearson, of Toronto,  awarded second prize in the competition for the pro

posed	Ottawa	Department	and Justice	Buildings. 

The architects' description as submitted to the judges in the contest is as follows

"We have endeavored in the accompanying design to adhere to the conditions of the competition as set forth in the pamphlet.

"The buildings are located as far southeast as possible, so as to take advantage, first, of the level ground of Majors' Hill Park, and second, the uninterrupted view of the entire buildings from the drive in front of the main building on Parliament Hill.

"The bridge which spans the ravine at a right angle to the Rideau Canal placed so that the eastern entrance is an axis with the main tower of the Departmental Building, while the western entrance to the bridge centres with the driveway in front of the Parliament Buildings. To overcome the difference in level between Parliament Hill and the new site, and to dispense with carrying the roadbed on a raking line (which we thought would look very unsightly)

it is carried across the ravine at the general level of Major's Hill Park. while the western end of the bridge

terminates	with a tower in which is placed a wide

	staircase	and elevator for the convenience	of foot 

	passengers.	crossing the bridge

	The vehicular traffic

ascends to the higher level by the two roadways	on each side of the tower. winding up on the brow of the ravine to the higher level.

"Whilst the Departmental	and Justice Buildings have been kept separate and distinct, the area required for the Departmental Building being so much greater than that required for the Justice Building. we thought a better arrangement and balance in the

grouping	of the buildings	could	he achieved	by planning them practically as three buildings with connecting wings, the Justice Building being kept entirely separate from the Departmental Building. They could, however, be connected by a covered passageway if so desired.

'Before determining the style of architecture in which to design the building we took into consideration the price per cubic foot as set forth in clause 1 of the conditions a rid decided that, as the buildings are to be fireproof, there was practically very little margin for elaboration of the exterior, while it would be useless to design then in the same style of the early

Victoria period of Gothic in which the existing Parliament Buildings are carried out. The style chosen is a modern treatment of later English Gothic which, whilst being distinctive in itself, will harmonize with  the existing buildings. This style. we believe, besides being more economical, is better adapted from a utilitarian point of view to the requirements of the various buildings.

	DEPARTMENTAL	BUILDING.

"This building is planned along the lines of a modern office building. The entrances, staircases arid elevators are placed so as to allow of tire separate working of the various departments. We have endeavored so far as is consistent with a Gothic style to plan the offices err a unit basis, so that the partitions between the various rooms can lie taken down and re-arranged to meet the needs of the departments.

JUSTICE BUILDING.

<article title=" JUSTICE BUILDING " author="">

The various offices in this building are lighted from the exterior; the corridors only are lighted from the two central courtyards. The Supreme ( Court, Exchequer Court and Railway Commission are placed on the ground, first and second floors respectively, while the Department of Justice with all the office staff is located on the third and fourth floors.

The Court rooms run up two storeys in height and are well lighted from the sides. The judges' bench in each case is at the south end (if the court room. to which access is obtained from the judges' corridor, the same being disconnected from the other public corridors. All the judges' rooms are en suite in the south wing, and private entrances, staircases, elevators

	and	lavatories	are provided entirely	separate from



the public. The main public entrance to this block is in the west end of the building facing Major's Hill  Park, and three other public staircases with suitable elevator accommodation are provided. 

''The Library is housed in a separate wing, disconnected from the Justice Building proper by a firewall. It is lighted by large mullioned windows from the sides and crud, while we have endeavored to treat it both externally and internally so as to define its purpose. The book-stacks are arranged at each side of the wide central aisle and between the columns and the external walls below the galleries is left ample space which could lie comfortably arranged for readers.

 



 The gallery running down each side and across one crud is reached from the ground floor of the Library by a staircase and from the corridor of the first floor. Large vaults for the storage of valuable hooks and manuscripts open off the library. The basement below can be used for packing, bookbinding or storage purposes.

''It may be deemed advisable to place the Justice Department on the ground floor and the courts on the upper floors (this can readily he done, as each floor area is the same and the number and location of elevators would readily permit of this).

ACCOMODATION. I 



"The accommodation provided in the two buildings on the various fillers approximates closely to the table of areas given in the conditions, in no case being less than the given area.

"NOTE. The elevations show the main tower of the

 Departmental		Building	one in storey	lower than the perspective drawing."



