<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Finials,

Cornices,

Skylights,

Ventilators,

Fire-proof Windows,

Expanded Metal Lath.

"Classik" Ceilings,

Roofing and Siding.

Highest grade of Material and Workmanship.



THE GAIT ART METAL CO., LTD.

CALT, - ONT.







Please mention the CANADIAN ARCHITECT

AND BUILDER when corresponding

with a advertisers

The "Faber System"

of Fireproof Flooring





The above system of Fireproof Hollow Tile Floor Slab without beams is used for every span in buildings of all kinds.



It is a very cheap fireproof floor because it is the most simple and labor and material saving, is the lightest and thinnest and as sound proof as any on the market.



These qualities are accomplished by distributing the material to meet existing stresses according to experience and science. The cross reinforcement allows a good and reliable anchorage for supporting walls. This slab also rests on supporting walls uniformly and considering the fact that it is comparatively thin, a good deal is saved in the height of the building. The cross reinforcements prevent cracks, and plaster adheres well to the terra cotta blocks used in the construction.



This is a system of great renown, being used in the new Palace of the German Emperor at Posen and most of the schools, hospitals and prominent buildings in Germany and is being extensively favored in the United States.



For further particulars, estimates and plans apply to







KARL R. SCHUSTER

PHONE M 2840	36 Toronto Street, TORONTO, ONT.

	   GOU LDS

	      —

	   PATENT

	   TILING

made in sheets 3 feet long by 20 inches wide and any thickness desired. Easily and quickly nailed in position on wall. Surface can be enameled; also made in brick size for use on exterior of buildings.



Shipped promptly to any address.





ALSO FOR SALE





Gould's Imitation Brick Face Cement

Block and the rights to 

manufacture same.







For all particulars write



Chas. H. Gould

470 English Street. LONDON, ONT.















Drawing $125 to $250 monthly require more than Schoolroom Knowledge.

As Chief Draftsman of Eng'g firm I know exactly the Quality and Quantity

of experience and practical training you must have, and will prepare you in few months home instructions for above paying positions, which I furnish free anywhere.

Complete highest Grade Drawing Outfit, everything included, with

German Silver Set of Tools, value $13.85, FREE next ten days.

Address, CHIEF DRAFTSMAN, Div. 12, ENG'S EQUIP'T CO., Inc., Chicago.