<doctype type="text">8	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



build to them. Look ahead and work on a clear scheme, even if it takes a hundred years to complete the scheme.'



As an evidence of the attention being given to the question of civic improvements, the case of two cities may be noted. In the old world, Vienna, which possesses a fat- larger proportion of open spaces than does London, Paris or Berlin, has set about a movement to preserve the forest and meadow land surrounding the town, increasing the parkways and open spaces five fold.



In the new world, Chicago is planning to surpass even Boston in planning for future needs. Believing that in fifty years it will be four times greater thin at present, with a population of 8,000,000, a commission has been authorized to draw up an outer park system of commensurate scale. This commission has made its report, and advocates the acquisition of 37,000 acres, extending 25 miles into the country, and at an estimated cost of $25,000,000.00. In addition to this there are many more smaller parks proposed-—eighty-four in all. The total park system would then comprise 40,000 acres, Or nearly three times the size of the island of Manhattan.

<article title=" THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS. -- The American Institute of Architects celebrated its Semi-Centennial in Washington, on January 7th, 8th and 9th, during the Annual Convention. The occasion was participated-in by representatives of all the allied arts, and addresses were received from sister societies. Our Vice-President represented this Association at the celebration, and presented a brief address, which will bc recorded in the volume of our proceedings for this year. A notable event in connection with the celebration was the conferring of the first Institute medal upon Sir Aston Webb, R A.,

past president of the Royal Institute of British Architects.



Our treasurer is to be congratulated upon the greatly improved financial statement which is to be presented this year. Last year's deficit of $14000 has been changed to a surplus of $350.00 this year. This good result has not been obtained merely by the raising of the annual dues, but by economy in expenditure and businesslike handling of our volume of proceedings.



Educational classes for the benefit of Toronto students have been conducted on the same lines as last year, with an enrolment of 17 students. The need of a class in design has been deeply felt by the Council, but difficulties in the way have, so far. prevented its establishment. A regrettable lack of educational facilities in other centres also prevails — a lack which militates seriously against the proper training of our students and the future progress of architecture in Our country, and especially in the smaller cities.



We are brought face to face with the fact that our students, as a rule, are not receiving the thorough grounding and training which students in other professions obtain, and are compelled to obtain. Should we not take up this question in earnest and endeavour to improve the situation as far as it lies in Our power?



Since writing this address one of our honorary members, Mr. 1-lenry Langley, has passed away. Mr. Langley designed several important buildings of a generation ago, including the Lieutenant-Governor's residence, the Metropolitan Methodist Church, the Toronto General Post Office, Some of the older office buildings and residences in Toronto, and numerous churches through out the country, from St. John, N. B., in the east, to the St. Clair River in the west. Mr. Langley was a pupil of Mr. Win. Hay, a Scotch architect who practised in Toronto n the fifties, and from whom he obtained a good training in Gothic architecture. Among Mr. Langley's pupils were Messers. Frank Darling, H. B. Gordon, A. A. Post, R. J. Edwards, Wesley Peters, Chas. E.; and Fred. Langley, C. H. Acton Bond, J. C. B. Horwood, the late J. H. Marling, of Marling & Burdette, Buffalo Fred. Kelly, of N.Y.; Murray White, of Holabird & Roche, Chicago; Ernest Wilby, of Kahn and Co., Detroit; W. Ford Howland, and the writer. Mr. Langley was a man of great kindness of heart, upright in all his dealings with his fellow men, and one who from first to last upheld and practised honorably his chosen profession.



And now, as I am to-morrow to vacate the office of President, I have to thank the Council for the honor placed upon me in electing me to serve a second term.



If I have failed to rise at all times to the measure of my duty, it has been because of physical inability or the pressure of insistent business, and not for lack of heartfelt interest in the work and progress of the Association.

<article title=" TREASURER'S REPORT FOR YEAR ENDING JANUARY, 1907" author="">

TREASURER'S REPORT FOR YEAR ENDING JANUARY, 1907.



RECEIPTS.

Cash in bank, January 5, 1906	$324.55

Membership fees                          

Admission fees	60.00

Students registration	33.00

Examination fees	161.00 

Advertisements in " Proceedings	95500

 Final dividend Guild Fund	11.22

Rent of rooms Guild Civic Art	15.00

Bank interest	4 45



DISBURSEMENTS. 

Convention Expenses

	Reporting	$67 60

	General	95 90

		$163.50

Registrar, salary		200.00

         petty cash	 32 42

Stationary, printing and sundries	 3450

Educational classes, net	43.20

Examinations	66 85

Library and insurance of books		50.80

Legal expenses		34.90

Rooms, rent etc		152.80

Expenses to Council meetings and	deputation

   to Ottawa		57.70

Printing arid publishing proceedings		360.60

Balance in bank, January 5, 1907		68095

	$1,878.22 $1,878.22



A discussion took place led by Mr. H. B. Gordon, upon the desirability of making another effort to secure legislation on similar lines to that granted to the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

The following are the officers elect for the ensuing

year President, Edmund Burke, Toronto ; First

Vice-President, Geo. W. Gouinlock, Toronto; Second

Vice-President, J. W. H. Watt, Ottawa ; Treasurer,

H. B. Gordon, Toronto; Registrar, W. R. Gregg,

Toronto ; Council, A. H. Gregg, J. W. Gray, W. A.

Langton, W. E. Moore, Toronto; E. L. Horwood,

Ottawa.

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES.

" author="">

MONTREAL NOTES.

A general meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was held on the evening of Dec. 3rd at which Mr. Archibald, past-president, brought forward a revised form for the election of officers. After a general discussion and the inclusion of a number of minor amendments, the new system of election, which forms an amendment to the Association by-1aws, was adopted The chief new feature is the establishment of a Nominating Committee, consisting of the President and the four preceding qualified past-presidents, who are to draw up an official list of officers willing to accept election. Provision is also made for the nomination of further candidates by any five members of the Association. It is hoped that the new system will do away with difficulties that sometimes arose under the old by-law according to which the same member might be elected to several offices, and members might receive election who were not prepared to accept. The large number of proxies registered, especially when the annual meeting took place at Quebec, sometimes made it difficult to straighten out these anomalies. it will also be easier to ensure to the Quebec branch of the Association a definite amount of representation amongst the officers. The Nominating Committee at present consists of Mr. Alcide Chausse, President Mr. J. S. Archibald, Mr. J. P. Guellet and Mr. W E. Doran.

A special meeting of the P.Q.A.A. was held in the rooms of the Association on the 4th of January to consider the Programme of Competition for the proposed new department buildings at Ottawa. Mr.

