<doctype type="text">114	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE ADAPTABILITY OF MATERIALS " author="Brown, W. M.">THE ADAPTABILITY OF MATERIALS

BY W. M. BROWN, C. E.



article written specially for THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER)





In the choice of any material for a special purpose, its adaptability to meet all requirements is the chief consideration. The qualities and quantities of its component parts, its strength and durability, as well as its finished appearance, all regulate its adaptability for the purpose intended. These may not attain the highest standard of excellence, but if they each contain a modicum in their composition, consistent with what is really essential to stability and appearance, they may meet the required desideratum. Materials may be suitable for certain purposes that cannot be utilized for any other, while there are some that can be quite consistently adapted for various requirements, besides that for which they were primarily intended.

There are also several things which affect building materials, both previous to and during construction. The exposure of timber, for instance, to the influences of the weather, and the detrimental use of the material before it is thoroughly seasoned. Several other instances might be mentioned, but it is principally the class of materials that are more suitable for certain purposes than others, which we would here consider.

Stone is recognized as one of the most prominent of all building materials, and it can be utilized to meet many requirements, both simple and complex. Yet in the consideration of its adaptability for certain purposes, it must not only possess the qualities of solidity and durability, but it must have that quality of being easily wrought to an artistic design under the skilful manipulation of the stonecutter or sculptor. There are certain stones which we term "rubble" that are only used for rough or common building purposes, as foundations or backing of walls. But the fine free-stones, adopted for the facing of walls, may be fashioned into some graceful moulding or floral decoration by the use of the chisel. These are classified under the title of "wrought stones" and may serve the purposes of coursers, moulded beltings, string and label mouldings or dressings of window and door openings.

Again, there are certain kinds of hewn work that produce different effects according to the architectural design. Thus, when the bold effect is required in the Baronial style of architecture, "corbelling·" is brought into requisition, as we often see under the projecting windows and circular turrets on the walls of castles. Each order of architecture has a method of manipulation of the stones peculiarly its own, to produce the desired effect, and it is by close study and strict accordance with taste and artistic feeling that a style can be satisfactorily and consistently carried out from beginning to end.

In certain classes of buildings, however, brick takes the precedence of stone, for the purposes required. Thus, for large stores, warehouses, and manufactories, brick is preferable to stone, as in many cases it is less expensive is a good protective against fire, and by utilizing the different colors and classes of brick manufactured, a very pleasing effect may be produced, besides the essential quality of solidity being maintained.

There is a wide scope for advancement in the manufacture of brick, and clay working materials. And it is in the improvement of the necessary machinery now in use, and the invention of new types that are found more suitable and less expensive in their adaptation, at the same time producing more satisfactory results, that we place our hope for still greater development in this department of building material

The finer processes of brick-making and clay-working are very adaptable for architectural effect, and whatever can be manufactured that will prove durable and at the same time artistic in finish and moderate in cost, will be sure to command a ready sale in the building market. The adaptability of terra cotta for architectural and decorative design is very considerable, and it may yet become more popular in the erection of high class buildings.

Cement and concrete are also now engaging the attention of architects and builders to a large extent, and the adaptability of these materials for many purposes in building construction is deserving of the greatest consideration. The question of "reinforced concrete" for floors, landings and stages, and their construction in the several classes of buildings in which they are to be adopted, is one of the utmost importance. And it is only. by strict laws based upon the practical experience of the composition, strength and durability of the materials employed, that measures can be framed to protect the safety of the public, and give satisfaction to the authorities and all concerned. Cement blocks for building purposes, although not yet in general use, are, nevertheless, very adaptable for many requirements, and can be so manufactured as to present very good imitations of ''wrought stones.''

The adaptability of stucco for decorative effects is very considerable. Its plastic nature can be utilized for many architectural purposes, yet it is not so generally adopted as it might be, owing to the precedence of other materials in building operations. Yet we find it very adaptable for columns, pilasters. cornices, bands, friezes, centre flowers, and other parts of the plasterer 's work.

The various kinds of wood and their qualities enter largely into the construction and architectural design of buildings, and it is impossible to enumerate in this limited article the multifarious forms of their adaptability. We can only indicate that timber required to bear a great strain or superincumbent weight must be of an enduring character, and thoroughly seasoned, while those kinds of timber, adopted for decorative purposes and artistic design, must be of a soft and more pliant nature, at the same time possessing the primary quality of durability.

For the .process of wood carving certain kinds of wood are preferable to others, according to the purposes for which they are intended. This is a wide study, and well deserves the attention of those engaged in its operations. Again, the use of iron and steel in the construction of buildings is also worthy of mention. The dimensions and weights of the different materials, and the practicability of their application, enter largely into the consideration of their adaptability to the purposes for which they are intended. The chief requisite is strength to sustain the weight or strain, the architectural effect being often a minor consideration. However, the two characteristic features in architectural design, strength and beauty, when combined in nicely adjusted and relative proportions, produce the nearest approach to the acme of accomplishment. Then the crowning effect will be that of a structure, serviceable for the purposes intended, and beautiful to the eye.

