<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	95

<article title=" ARCHITECTURE AT THE ROYAL ACADEMY " author="Dick, D. B.">

ARCHITECTURE AT THE ROYAL ACADEMY

By D. B. DICK.



Architecture is represented at this year's exhibition of the Royal Academy by some two hundred drawings. The room devoted to them is not very large, but it is admirably lighted. It is at the southeast corner of the building, and forms a sort of annex, outside the main walls which enclose the picture galleries. It is, therefore, not a thoroughfare, nor is it likely to be entered by many visitors, except those who wish to look at its contents. Consequently, if one may say so without being suspected of ironical intention, there is always plenty of room to study the drawings without being hustled, even at times when the other rooms are so crowded that it is almost impossible to get more than a glimpse of any pictures except those that are skied and so can be seen over the heads of the people. This deserted air seems to show the justice of the oft-repeated assertion that the general public takes very little interest in architecture. And thc following remark, made in the hearing of the writer, appears to afford future confirmation of its truth ''I wish I could find a seat in a room where there in something to look at.'' But, this lady notwithstanding. the architect or student will find much to look at, good, bad and indifferent. It may, however, be said at once that there is nothing which stands conspicuously forth to challenge attention, either on account of the importance of the subject or the excellence of the design. It is to be supposed that anything admitted to the Royal Academy exhibition must be up to a certain standard of excellence. But it is possible the decisions of the Hanging Committee are sometimes influenced by collateral considerations. Indeed, in view of the extreme ingenuity with which frames of the most varying dimensions are arranged to cover the wall space it seems not unfair to hazard a guess that sometimes things get hung because they happen to fit an awkward gap, while others, better entitled to a place, have to be rejected simply because they do not happen to fit any of the vacant spaces.

Almost every class of work that a modern architect can be called upon to design is represented:

Educational, ecclesiastical, domestic, commercial, monumental and decorative. There are also a number of designs of various sorts that appear to have been made either to relieve the overflowing exuberance of the designer's fancy, or, in default of remunerative work, or perhaps out of a public-spirited desire to suggest methods of effecting desirable public improvements. Many of the designs in these classes have the unpractical air which is so often noticeable in students' designs.

One amongst them which is practicable enough. although not likely to be carried out, is entitled ''Suggestion for Street Bridges Across the Thames.'' by T. E. Collent and S. Jiamp. It is a birdseye view of part of the river and its surroundings. showing a new bridge substituted for the present Charring Cross railway and foot bridge. There is a suggestion of the Ponte Vecelio in Florence in the design of the bridge, and of the Place de hi Concorde in Paris in the grandiose approaches at either end. A continuous row of small shops, with a covered colonnade in front over the sidewalk is shown all along each side, but the uniformity is rather tame and the design might be vastly improved by being broken up by some picturesque features. Perhaps thc largest building delineated is the University of Birmingham, by Sir Aston Webb and E. Ingress Bell, The plan, shown in block only, is in the form of the letter D, with the straight side forming continuous building, while the loop appears to consist of a corridor with seven blocks radiating from it in a manner suggestive of the wards of a hospital. The style is French Renaissance, but it is difficult from the two drawings shown to judge of the general effect. One is a geometrical elevation to a small scale of the long side above mentioned. This is about 350 feet long by 50 high, with a narrow, square tower rising behind it to height of about 320 feet. These proportions give the elevation somewhat the effect of an inverted T. The other drawing is a larger scale perspective, showing the main entrance, which is at the opposite end of the central radiating block. This is a striking composition with a plain massive pile. suggestive of an Egyptian pylon, rising to a height of about 80 feet at each side, and between there is a large and very richly detailed arched and mullioned window over the imposing entrance doorway. The effect is bold, but one is tempted to ask what is inside of these two windowless piles.

There is, of course, a good deal of church work, some of it very good. In a number of instances, however. the towers appear to be disproportionately large and rather overpowering for the size of the church.

The domestic work is mostly in what may be called the English vernacular. which is so profusely illustrated in the architectural journals. In some instances the ground floor plan is shown to a small scale as an inset, In the drawings which are hung high, these are unreadable, unless one mounts a stepladder or uses an opera glass. Some, on the other hand, are so near the floor that one can only read them by going down on all fours. Upon the whole, the plans convey the impression that the English architect pays more attention to the external appearance of dwelling houses than to the internal arrangement Not infrequently a good external design is associated with a slovenly and undignified plan, with perhaps a large hall leading nowhere and some of the principal rooms entering off narrow passages, and with inconvenient arrangements for service. There are some good ''bits" in narrow street fronts, both for residence and business purposes.

It is interesting when opportunity occurs to compare competition designs with each other, as in the cases of the "Birmingham Council House Extension

of which five are exhibited. The extension forms in itself an important Renaissance building, connected by a bridge with the old building. One of the five designs is marked ''Premiated,'' why, it is not easy to tell, as one of the others is much better and is a very good design indeed. The floor plans are not shown. so it may be that superiority of internal arrangement

