<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	59

<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

House near Birmingham, England Mr. E. Stanley Mitton, Architect.

This house is built in Wake Green Road, Mosely, near Birmingham. am. The outside is of rough cement stucco, colored a light cream, with a black tar plinth, 2 feet six inches high. The woodwork is unwrought, and painted apple green.

The roof is covered with hand-made tiles, sandfaced, from a Staffordshire yard, and the bricks are from Woodville, Leicester, being 2 1-4 inch by 11 inch, finished With large flush mortar joints.

The plan of the house is simple and consists of three reception rooms, large hall, kitchen, scullery and other conveniences, six large bedrooms, and the usual bath, lavatory, etc.

The ground floor rooms are fitted with ''well fireplaces and wood chimney pieces. of special design, and the entrance hall is laid with pitch pine wood blocks, finished and polished.



 "Dalkeith Lodge," residence of Mr. Henry New,  Hamilton, Ont. —Herbert H, New, architect (late of Boston, Mass. now of Winnipeg, Man.)

This design is marked by simplicity and refinement. The shingles are stained dark green. The walls are of red pressed brick with white mortar joints, and the verandah of a Colonial type. The plan is essentially square, but a long, low effect has been secured for the exterior by a careful use of horizontal lines. Note the double rows of shingles on the roof. the clear-cut cornice and the quiet dignity of the verandah.

The interior is finished throughout, the first floor except the kitchen and pantry, ill quartered oak, stained ''old English'' color. The second floor is finished in white pine, painted white enamed, except the doors. which are of white wood stained a deep

mahogany. 



The heating is hot water, the plumbing fixtures being of porcelain enameled iron. The house is piped for gas and wired for electricity.

The cost of this house at Hamilton, Ont., was about

$8,000. 

<article title=" NEW OTTAWA FIRM OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

NEW OTTAWA FIRM OF ARCHITECTS.

A new architectural firm, under the name of Machado & Weeks, has just opened offices at Ottawa. Mr. Machado is an architect with fifteen years experience in Boston, and has had a large practice both in that city and in Ottawa Mr. Weeks has had ten years' active experience in Boston and Washington.





There is a strong possibility that the Northwestern Portland Cement Company, of San Francisco, will establish a large cement works at Kendall, B. C. It is estimated that the proposed plant will have a capacity of 5,000 barrels per day, employ 700 men and cost S1,000,000.



Negotiations have recently been in progress whereby the structural department of the Locomotive & Machine Works at Longue Pointe, Que., will be taken over by (lie Dominion Bridge Company, of Montreal. It is stated that the structural department has been operated at a great loss by the Locomotive and Machine Works ever since its inauguration as a separate department about two years ago.



Mr. D. D. Hook r, of Helland, has placed an order with the Robertson Machinery Company for a complete brick drying plant, consisting of one 12-foot Sheldon blower, 6,500-foot heater, 100 h.p. boiler, automatic pumps, 1,400 feet industrial railway. 82 brick roller-bearing cars, each with a capacity of 300 brick. The dryer has a capacity of 24,000 brick, and will dry that many in 24 hours, thereby increasing Mr. Hooker's output nearly threefold, and lengthening the brick season fully four months.

MONTREAL NOTES.

The destruction of the MacDonald Engineering Building of the McGill University on Friday, the 5th of April. is particularly calamitous from an architectural point of view, owing to the fact that the  building contained the architectural department, with its valuable collection of casts, models, photographs  and lantern slides. These have been practically wiped out. A number of valuable drawings were saved, though in a damaged condition. The collections had been brought together originally by Professor Capper, a scholar of exceptionally wide range of knowledge and catholicity of taste and had been increased from time to time by Prof. Capper and his present successor. Professor Nobbs. Of several hundred casts, whilst some no doubt were the inevitable examples. the greater part were the result of careful research  and had obviously been chosen for their beauty rather than it for their historical value. It is deplorable that the subject of so much devotion should thus have utterly perished. What has been said of the selection of the casts applies equally well to the photographs and slides, and with regard to this latter tile loss will be felt beyond the University, as they included works illustrating sculpture and painting, and

were voluntarily lent by the University to lecturers ill the city who might want to deal with these subsubjects. The Sketching Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects were over and over again indebted to the McGill collection for the slides, hr which lectures read before them were illustrated. Br a remarkable chance, some sketch designs for the towers of the Houses of Parliament, London, Eng., believed to be by the hand of Pugin, were saved with-out serious injury. Of the building itself the interior and roof are entirely wrecked; the external stone walls of the lower two stories seem to be not seriously damaged, but the rest is severely calcined by the intense heat of the fire.



A disquieting collapse took place at a new school which has been in course of erection at the corner of Olier and Sanguinet streets. On the arrival of mild weather the masonry began to tumble down, and, in spite of efforts to cheek the runt, quite a considerable extent of wall fell into the street. The cause, as stated by the city building inspector, was the freezing of the mortar, the walls having been built in very cold weather. There was so long a period of zero weather

—in February the mean temperature was 9 degrees above zero—that a good deal of building had to he carried on with the mercury standing very low. No other such accidents, however, have been reported.

The sum of $3,000,000	has recently been voted by

 Parliament for improvements at the harbor.	The money is being applied to completing and improving the railway terminal facilities. it is the intention of the Harbor Commissioners to take over and control

all the tracks upon the wharves. The purpose is to benefit the country by readier means of export and import. Incidentally the scheme should have a material effect on the prosperity of the city.

While prospects continue good for building during the coming seas on, the financial in the end of March no doubt prejudicially affected many enterprises, it is said that the great hotel which was projected will not for the present be carried out, the

