	<doctype type="text">72	        CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

		Modern Steel Buildings

<article title=" Modern Steel Buildings " author=" Ewen, John M.">By MR. JOHN M EWEN, M AM. SOC. C E.

	(Continued from April number).



Let us now go back to our own building. The wrecking contractor has removed the old building. The foundation contractor has dug the caisson wells and has filled them with concrete. We now have our concrete columns on which to rest our steel columns, and we are ready to go ahead with the erection of the building.

Meanwhile the core of earth, where the basements will be, is still in place. We have saved a good deal of time by letting it stay there and by getting the caisson wells dug and filled first. If we had spent our time excavating we should not be able to begin on the steel work till late ill the season and then the cold weather would come on and the men would be subjected to hardships and the work would be delayed. Now, however, we shall be able to get all the outside work done during good weather, and by the time winter conies we shall have the shell of the building completed and we shall be able to turn some steam on













































 













FIRST FLOOR AND BASEMENT FLOOR BEAMS IN; EXCAVATION

	IN PROGRESS	SUPERSTRUCTURE GOING UP.





while the plasterers and decorators are finishing the interior

Meanwhile we can do our excavating at our leisure and we can go as far down as we please and put in as many basements as we desire.

It is coming to be customary to go forty feel downward in Chicago and to have three or four basements.

Deep basements have become very desirable in Chicago ever since the freight tunnel was built. This tunnel is forty feet below the street level, It is about seven feet in diameter and fifty miles long. It runs underneath practically all the streets of the downtown districts and it extends south to about Archer avenue, west to about Halsted street and north to about Chicago avenue, It is designed to carry coal



*	Paper read before the Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science. Toronto, and reprinted from the Transactions by permission.

and merchandise and mail and express matter, and anything else that can be transported in a bore of this diameter. To a considerable extent it is intended to relieve the congestion of teams on the streets above,

In order to get down to the tunnel a building must have at least a third basement. Then it can receive its coal and get rid of its ashes and do a lot of other work without cluttering up its sidewalks or its back doors.

Altogether aside, however, from the advantages con- 













 









 



 





 

 









 





 



 







 





 





PLAN OF FLOOR BEAMS AS USED IN BASEMENTS.





nected with a freight tunnel, it seems likely that the buildings of the future will have a great many basements. Land is so valuable in the heart of a great city that as we have been forced to go upward instead of spreading out, so we shall also be forced to go downward.

Using the methods we have already described, it would be perfectly feasible to construct a building with eight of its stories underground. Such a building could be lighted by means of an interior court, extending all the way from the top of the building to the bottom of the lowest underground story, if desired. From the engineering standpoint, there is practically no limit to the height or depth of a building. That is, of course, within reason. When you have caisson foundations, resting on bed rock, you have a basis on which you can constructed twenty, thirty, fifty or sixty stories without danger. The real limit is the financial willingness of the owner to pay for the expense of carrying on building operations at so great height, and the personal willingness of the tenant to put in his time traveling from the fiftieth story of one building to the fiftieth story of another, The speed of the elevator service here becomes an important consideration. Such matters,

