<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	Vol. XX.—No.	229.			JANUARY, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Students' Competition.— Design submitted by 'Tekton.'





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Imperial Bank, Winnipeg.— Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Architects.

Ideal Furniture Company's Block, Portage la Prairie, Man.— Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Architects.





CONTENTS

Editorial 

Our Illustrations -	2	Toronto Builders' Exchange			-	12

		London Builders' Exchange	-			2

C. A. & B. Competition for a Small Suburban Town House		Montreal Builders' Exchange		-		12-13

Plant of the Don Valley Brick Works, Toronto	-		4	The Late Mr. Henry Langley		14

Cement Industry at Owen Sound, Out. -		-	5	Heat Unit and Its Application to Buildings	-	15

Ontario Association of Architects Annual	Convention		6-7

Montreal Notes				Plumbing Goods -		'5

Design for a Moderate Cost House	-	-	P. Q. A. A. Sketching Club	-	vii

	Legal	X

By-Laws Governing Reinforced Concrete Construction in	Personal	X

	Toronto	- 10-11 



Under the vigorous general-

<article title=" The Jamaica Disaster " author="">	ship of Sir Alfred Jones immediate steps are being taken

to rebuild the unfortunate City of Kingston. If Canadian architects and builders haven't enough work to do at home, Jamaica offers an inviting field for their services.



The loss of time and money

<article title=" The Strike Evil " author="">	occasioned by strikes even in Canada with its comparatively

small population, is strongly emphasized by statistics just issued by the Department of Labor at Ottawa. During the year ending June 30th last, there occurred 130 trade disputes, involving 518 firms and 18,513 work people. '[he loss of time due to these disputes was 343,800 working days, which, estimating the average wage at $2.00 per day, means a loss in dollars and cents of three quarters of a million dollars. This tidy sum would go a long way towards providing the strikers' families with food, clothing and fuel throughout the present winter.



In collecting the data for the

<article title=" London Keeps No Building Records " author="">	review of building operations for the year 1906, for our



December issue, we were advised by the City Clerk of London, Ont., that no details of building operations in that city were available. The only information to be obtained was an approximate estimate of the total expenditure on buildings during the year, and nothing was given to show the basis for this estimate. Further enquiry shows that no record is kept of building operations for the city of London, a rather astonishing fact and one which is not creditable to a city of such importance. It is further learned that there is no system of inspection of buildings. Specifications for new buildings are, we understand, passed upon by the City Engineer, but there is no inspector to see that the specifications are lived up to. This is far from being a sat-

isfactory condition of affairs. It is time that the city should decide to be up-to-date and in line with other municipalities in this matter of keeping a records of its building operations and in establishing a system of inspection which should insure the use of proper methods of construction.

		A prominent contractor writes

	<article title=" Technical Training not Substitute for Brains " author="">	the Canadian Architect and

	.	Builder as follows in response to





a request for his opinion regarding the advantages of technical education in the building trades: Technical training is only of use in such subjects as the pupil finds congenial to his tastes or adapted to his capabilities. I have in my employ one young man who graduated in several subjects in the London, Eng., schools. The man above referred to has benefited about as much from his special training as a hen would from swimming lessons ; he is naturally dull, and only capable of earning minimum wages at rough work. A few days ago he was working at excavating; a waggon came one morning with a broken bottom board, leaving a hole about a foot long; this young fellow shoveled earth into the waggon and down through the hole; if I had not stopped him he probably would have kept on till the hole was full. I set him to work to sweep plasterers' rubbish out of a large hall, and told him to open the windows at both ends and take advantage of the strong wind. He opened the windows, but swept from the wrong end of the ball, against the wind. Technical training is a good thing, I believe, but when a man is looking for a job it does not help his case much by claiming that he has bad a technical training.



Considerable discussion has

<article title=" Toronto's Housing Problem " author="">taken place in the Toronto daily



papers as to the means which

should be adopted to remedy the condition of affairs existing in the locality formerly known as St. Johns

