<doctype type="text;ad">A Word to Architects

and Builders

THE problem of LIGHT is very important in planning a building in the business section of Cities and Towns. We have solved the problem with our







LUXFER PRISMS



For Sidewalk Areas and Windows



Write for Circular LUXFER PRISM CO., Limited

	and Prices.	100 King Street West,

	TORONTO, ONT.





Portland variety, either domestic or foreign, which, when tested neat, after one day test in air, shall be capable of sustaining without rupture a tensile strain of at least 200 pounds, and after one day in air and six days in water be capable of sustaining without rupture a tensile strain of 500 pounds per square inch.



The Luxfer Prism Company, limited

The Don Valley Brick Works, limited

The proportions of cement, sand, broken stone or macadam for concrete used in footings or foundations must consist of one part of cement to not more than three parts of sand and not more than five parts of macadam or broken stone. The cement and sand must be mixed thoroughly dry so that the mass shall be of uniform color, and then mixed with water until it becomes a plastic mortar. This mortar is to be mixed with the stone in such a manner that the mortar and macadam shall be a uniform mass. Dry sand and cement may be mixed with wet inerts, mixed thoroughly, and then water added and mixed thoroughly again.

In Cleveland all public and semi-public buildings must be fireproofed and every building in the main part of the city must be fireproof. In a few years, as the old structures decay and are torn down and replaced, the entire city will become practically fireproof. All buildings must have a five-foot space on each side of them if used for public entertainments. The restrictions regarding the building of theatres are very great.



A by-law to amend the present building inspection by-law is being introduced by the Victoria, B.C., City Council. The by-law seeks to remedy some defects in the system of issuing building permits, which, it provides, must be taken out for all building projected within the city limits. This will enable an accurate estimate of the amount of building going on to be made from time to time. It will also enable the building inspector to watch closely all buildings in course of erection and to see that the law is strictly observed.