VOL XX.—No. 233.

<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Competition for a Farm House.—Design by "Wood"

ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Three Typical Canadian Carnegie Libraries, Ottawa, Lindsay and Paris, Ont.

The Old Church at Tlalpam, Mexico.





CONTENTS

MAY, 1907.

Editorial	- 69-70

Building Construction as Affecting Insurance Rates	- 71

Modern Steel Buildings	-	-	- 72-73-74

How to Make Putty	-	-	- -	- 75

Jointless Floors	-	-	- - - 

Building Material for 1907	-	-	-	- 76

Montreal Builders' Exchange Quarterly Meeting	-	76

Tin Clad Fireproof Doors	- -	- -	77

Montreal Notes	-	-	-	- -	- 78

Technical Education in Montreal	- -	- 79

Efforts to Preserve St. Paul's Cathedral	- -	79

Rights of Canadian Architects	- -	- 80

The Modern Hall -	- -	- -	- 80

The Jamestown Exposition -	-	-	-	80-81

Proceedings of the 1907 Convention of the Architectural

   League of America - - - -

Our Illustrations - -		-		-		-	82

Homes for Workmen -	-		-		-		83

Hot Air Furnace - -		-		-		-	84

Cesspools and their Construction			-		-		85

Technical Education for Halifax -				-		-	85

Selecting Proportions for	Concrete 		- 		-		86

Expansion Joint in Concrete	Roofing			-		-	86

Concrete Railway Ties -	- 		- 		-		87

Metal Shingle & Siding Company		Honor		President		-	87

Remarkable Underpinning - -				- -			x

Heat Loss from Buildings - -				-		-	xii

The Cost of Ventilation - -			-		- 		xiv



Housing Canadian Workmen.<article title=" Housing Canadian Workmen " author="">

That there is congestion in the house market and particularly so in that class of houses suitable for workingmen, not only in Toronto, but in almost every progressive city and town in Canada, is a fact that cannot bear too frequent repetition. In the track of our phenomenal industrial development follows this difficulty of housing the artisan, a question which cannot go much longer without serious consideration. In Toronto and Hamilton the matter is receiving the attention it merits, and before the close of the present building season some definite steps will have been taken toward a solution of this very important problem. No half way measures can be considered, as now at the opening of the building season the danger of a house famine and consequent depression of trade must be encountered. With the great expansion in our export trade must be coupled the requirements for home consumption, owing to the increase of population, supplemented by the tide of immigration seeking to develop our vast Western territories. Obviously, a city is under a great disadvantage in its endeavor to secure new industries when it is unable to provide homes for its workmen. It is the city at large and the manufacturers particularly who will benefit by the proper housing of the artisan.

The question now arises as to who will best deal with this matter. The ordinary investor as yet fails to realize any prospect for safe returns in any extensive project of this nature, and, consequently, as in the case of the International Harvester Company at Hamilton, the manufacturer himself must turn in and build houses for his employes. His business and plant is continually increasing, and it would be at least an indirect benefit to himself to have dependable

workmen permanently and comfortably housed. The first requisite is to have the workman understand that no attempt is being made to compel him to shoulder a financial burden which will be oppressive for years, but that lie is being placed in a position to purchase a home for himself, not on a charitable but on a legitimate financial basis.

That there is money in the project for the investor seems indisputable. An International Harvester Company's representative is credited with the statement that he would guarantee a return of 20 per cent. on an investment of $200,000 in workingmen's houses in East Hamilton, and that 200 small residences could be sold within the next six months in that city.

It seems probable that Canadian efforts along this line will, for the present at least, be confined to the construction of small and comparatively cheap dwellings that will command a ready sale. Tenements have their advantages as well as disadvantages. In the first place, they must be built by moneyed investors, who expect to hold them for rental. Apartments in them cannot easily be sold. On the other hand, in congested city districts, where land is valuable and small families require only limited quarters, they may serve a useful purpose, and Toronto may yet have to face the tenement problem, which is not by any means new to the old world countries nor to the United States. In the latter country, a general alteration of the tenement house law is contemplated in a series of bills which have been lately introduced into the Assembly at Albany.

In England, instead of "Workingmen's Houses," "Dwellings for the Poor" is the usual phrase employed, and there it presents one of the most difficult problems of the day. The attempts of the London

