<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	57



is comparatively simple. And it saves a great deal of trouble.

If you follow the old method and dig the big hole in the ground before you lay your foundations, you have to support the sides of this hole with long, strong timbers, and you are constantly worried by the fear that some of these timbers may slip and break, and that the building next door, or the pavement of the street, may feel the jar and may be more or less seriously damaged.

Suppose, for instance, that the building has been torn down, and that you have proceeded to make a large excavation. You can readily see that it is necessary to take great precautions, in order to protect surrounding property from injury. Instead of taking this risk, you may, if you please, allow almost all the dirt to remain in place and get your foundations all in before you dislodge it.

You begin by digging a trench along the sides of your lot. The sides of this trench you support with horizontal planks, which are braced apart by screw braces. Finally, when the trench has reached the desired depth of your lowest basement, you put in a concrete e base at the bottom of it and install vertical steel beams all the way up the middle of it, from bottom to top, and brace these beams with jack screws set between them and the planks which still form the sides of the trench. The pressure from the street and from the earth and the buildings surrounding your lot is now transmitted across the trench through the planks and the jack screws and the steel beams and is now successfully resisted by the big core of earth which you have left still occupying the whole centre of your lot.

You are now ready to dig the wells for your caisson foundations. At various spots on your lot, that is, wherever you intend to have a steel column for the support of your building, you begin to make a round hole. The rest of the earth on the lot remains unexcavated, just as it was. All the excavating you now do is simply for holes which will afterwards be filled with concrete and used to support your steel columns. 

The depth to which you dig these holes will depend upon the size of the building and the character of the soil. In Chicago you may choose between two different levels. One is hard pan. The other is bed rock . The first is found about sixty feet below the surface in the down-town district. The second is not reached till you have gone down one hundred and ten feet. In the case of a large building it is usually advisable to go all the way down to the second level.

As these wells are dug they are lined with heavy strips of wood, called lagging, and they are further protected by the insertion of metal rings, which keep

everything	steady and transmit all pressure from

every side.	The digging is usually done by hand, with

shovel and pick, and is good, hard work, especially when the laborers get down toward bed rock. Recently, in a caisson well six feet in diameter, two men worked for eight hours and made only eight inches of progress.

 When the wells have finally reached the requisite depth, they are filled with concrete to the level at which the bases of the columns are to be set. The bottom of the well has previously been somewhat enlarged, or " belled out,'' so as to transmit the weight of its load over a large area. The rest of the well is of the same diameter throughout.

These columns of concrete are commonly called caissons, though they (10 not, strictly speaking, deserve that name. The word caisson, in engineering practice, really refers to a foundation which is made under water by men who are working in a chamber filled with compressed air. Caisson disease is the disease which men get through breathing the compressed air in a chamber of that kind. Our caisson wells in Chicago are not built under compressed air at all. They are simply dug with a shovel and a pick,

just in the same way in which any ordinary excavation is made.

General William Sooy Smith, a famous American engineer, recommended the use of what we now call caisson foundations at the time when the Masonic Temple was built, twenty years ago. At that time the idea was not thought feasible. Later, however, it was tried in the Stock Exchange Building of Chicago, and it soon began to win its way into favor.

Of course, the other kind of foundation is still used. in many cases long piles are driven down into the ground and the building rests on them. Care must be take in, however, to see that the heads of the piles are driven down below the water level. Otherwise they will rot.

In other cases, the foundations consist of what might be called rafts of steel beams, placed closely together, and set in concrete. These raft foundations, or floating foundations, support the columns which in turn support the floors.

One disadvantage about pile foundations and about raft foundations is that they settle when the weight of the building is imposed upon them. It is therefore customary in such cases to build the first floor of the building several inches higher than it ought to be, and then wait for the whole structure to settle down to its proper level. in some places in the downtown district of Chicago you will notice that the sidewalk slopes from the building to the street. this means that the building (lid not settle as much as its builders thought it would. In other eases, the sidewalk slopes the other way. That means that the building was made heavier than was expected, and that it settled too much, so that the slope of the sidewalk is toward the building from the street. Another disadvantage about raft foundations is that they take up a great deal of space. Sometimes they even extend over into the next lot under the adjoining building.

A case of this kind was once carried to the Supreme Court. It was a dispute between Mr. Field and Mr. Leiter. Mr. Field won. The court decided that he had the right to extend his foundations into Mr. Leitre's property. I was connected with the controversy in the interests of Mr. Field, and it became my duty to go to Mr. Leiter with the necessary drawings and show him exactly what we intended to do. There was to be a floating foundation, 26 feet wide, thrusting itself under the party wall and resting half on Mr. Field's property and half on Mr. Leitre's 

Mr. Leiter studied the drawings carefully for a long time. and then said: ''Well, what shall I (10 if my neighbor on the other side should wish to perform the same kind of building operations as Mr. Field? He would want a similar foundation of the same width, 26 feet, and would naturally want thirteen feet of my land. This would make 26 feet of land that I would lie obliged to furnish. Now, as I have only 23 feet. (10 I not run the risk of being sued for not  having land enough to accommodate my neighbors?''

(To be concluded in May n number.)

<article title=" MR. G. A REID, PRESIDENT " author="">

MR. G. A REID, PRESIDENT.

Mr. G. A. Reid, of Toronto, was elected president of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts, at the General Assembly, held recently in the gallery of lime Art

Association, Montreal. - Other officers elected were

Vice-president, Mr. Win. Brymner, Montreal; secretary-treasurer, Mr. James Smith, Toronto. Mr. Curtis Williamson, of Toronto, and Mr. Maurice Cullen, of Montreal, were elected to the rank of academicians. The elections of associate painters amid architects was deferred to next year.

<article title=" ARE THEY READ?" author="">

ARE THEY READ?

If a manufacturer should advertise, however modestly, some article at a price he would rather not sell at, lie would never again wonder whether, after all, his advertisements are read.

