<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	101



ply to make inspection of the new plant which they have laid down across the water. The company is now equipped to turn out three hundred thousand bricks per day. These bricks are made from shale rock, which is simply ground and moistened into clay for common bricks. The kilns are on the "continuous" system. The resultant bricks are dense and of great strength. The shale rock from which they are made appears to be of inexhaustible extent.

The work of demolition is proceeding between Phil-lip's square and St Alexander street, on the south side of St. Catherine street, to make way for a new theatre opposite the as yet unfinished Bennett's Theatre, and still another building of the same class is projected for St. Catherine street, between St. Urban street and St. Lawrence Boulevard. The promoters are French-Canadian business men.

Protests had been lodged with the city against the proposed erection of the new Fusiliers' Armory on Esplanade avenue, to which a number of adjoining proprietors were objecting as being out of accord with the residential character of the surroundings. The city attorneys, however, declared that the objection could not be legally enforced.

The building permits issued by the inspector's office are, as usual at this period of the year. surpassing all previous records. Amongst other buildings in contemplation or in course of erection, is the uptown branch of the Bank of Toronto, to be a stone building. with a frontage of 48 feet on St Catherine street and 110 feet on Guy street. . Another warehouse, to cost $50,000, is to be built on the southwest side of Victoria Square. The Royal Bank. besides its new headquarters in St. James street, is building a new branch at the corner of St. Catherine street and Stanley street, and another in Westmount. The First Baptist Church have broken ground for their new building at the corner of Sherbrooke street and Union avenue. A new apartment house, which is to stand at the corner of Sherbrooke street and University street, is to be built over the treacherous streak of running clay which has been the ruin of numbers of buildings along its course. Some time has, therefore, been occupied in driving piles for the foundations. but this has now been accomplished.

<article title=" P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB " author="">

P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB.

The Sketching Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects had the first of its summer excursions in May 11th, when a number of members traveled to St. Anne to inspect the new Agricultural College buildings there being erected under the care of Messrs. Hutchison & Wood, architects. Nine different buildings were visited, all well advanced. They extend over a wide area of land, situated beside the southern branch of the Ottawa River, just where it joints the St. Lawrence. The material employed is a reddish huff brick, with stone dressings. The architectural features employed are for the most part such as arise out of requirements of structure and plan, and other buildings harmonize well with their rural surroundings The roofs are of red interlocking tiles, laid upon concrete roofs. The central building is the Administrative Department. with Chemistry and Biology Building set diagonally to the roar with connecting corridors. To the right and left, and advanced

well in front of this suite, are the residential buildings for men and women, the latter much the larger and containing the main dining hall and kitchen. Beyond are the Power House, the Stable, the Horticultural Building and the Poultry Farm, the last already in active operation. A large modern dairy farm, on the other side of the railway line, has been purchased for the purposes of the college. A number of laborers' cottages will subsequently be built. Mr. Wood, jr., was with the excursion to explain the arrangements of the college.

The second of the club's excursions, on June 8th, was to the village of Terrebonne, with a view to

































OLD HOUSES, TERREBONNE, QUE.





sketching in that locality. Intermittent showers interfered with this intention, but a pleasant afternoon with spent visiting the picturesque old village, which contains a number of old stone houses and a manor of severely classic and dignified design, which is now used as a school

<article title=" ARCIHTECTURE IN AMERICA " author="Von Ihne, Ernest E.">



ARCIHTECTURE IN AMERICA.

Mr. Ernst E. von Ihne, one of the guests at the recent opening of the Carnegie Institute at Pittsburg, and court architect to Emperor William of Germany. is reported by the American press as having

 

given expression to his views on American architecture as follows:

''You are at work meeting conditions. That is the thing that architects have always to do. No nation can achieve a national architecture whose artists say:

'Let us build in the Gothic style,' or 'No, let us build in Romanesque; that is better.' A country has simply to begin and build; it will start with what style it believes best suited to its particular problems, but it will just develop as it appreciates its needs. I have my idea as to what historic style is best suited to the foundation of your architecture. but you may find another to be the best one. That doesn't matter. The point I make now is that you in America are earnestly striving to meet the particular problems of buildings fitted for dwellings, business houses and public halls in America—problems different in many respects from any hitherto attacked by architects—and you are meeting these problems with a surprising degree of success, considering how brief has been the time during which you have been at it.

''New York is most impressive in the daring and untrammeled spirit in which it is thrusting up its gigan-

