<doctype type="text">102	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



tic fabrics into the air. Consider, whoever before undertook to erect what is almost a city under a single roof on such a plot of ground as that which stands that Flatiron Building. And how brilliantly you have dealt with a similar problem in the Times Building.

''You do right. precisely. to treat these tall buildings frankly as towers. That is exactly what they are. Already you have the campanile of Giotto standing in the most conspicuous point along your thoroughfare, and, I believe, other great towers reproduced in other parts of the city.

''Your problem has been to make the most of every inch of land. The concentration of the people in the city has brought conditions from which architects of former years have been free.

''Until within the last few years architecture has had no chance. The nineteenth century was one of war and of disturbed social and political conditions and of general poverty. All the arts suffered, and especially did those which require large outlay suffer. Not only were no great buildings erected, but men forgot how to build and when we began again it was in ignorance and forgetfulness. The result wax the horrible warnings which exist on every side. If only the tradition of good building had been remembered we should have been spa red all that.

''Now that we are prosperous again and minded to build we shall do well if we go back to the eighteenth century and begin again where architects left off. Why begin at the beginning? Why puzzle again over the problems which earlier centuries have definitely settled? I consider that there are certain things pretty well determined in architecture. The sixteenth century definitely discarded Gothic as a style for domestic or commercial architecture. Conditions of life have altered since the days when Gothic was

properly employed, and it is mere slavish imitation to build in it now. I do not speak of ecclesiastical architecture Religion is essentially unchanging, and its aspirations express themselves in forms permanent and stretching from age to age. But domestic life is not to-day what it was in the middle ages. and commercial life in its modern sense is a new thing in the world.

''My belief is that the world was right in agreeing. as it did, that the classic form was the one which might best be progressively adapted to the needs of modern life, In the eighteenth century it had reached the highest development. for its purpose. of the classical style. My feeling is that we are wise in going back to that point, not to rest in its achievement, but to progress from it. having in mind always the necessity of studying our particular problem and in dealing with it freely and creatively, yet with intelligence informed of the history of past architectural endeavor."

<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

CAN\ADIAN ARCHITECT AND builder STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR A SMALL SUBURBAN HOUSE TO COST

$3,OOO. DESIGN SUBMITTTED BY "ARCHITECTURE"



(MR. CHAS. dolphin., 73 PARK AVENUE. ST.



HENRI, MONTREAL. QUE.)



House to be stucco and half timber, balloon frame. with Basement tinder entire house except piazza. The

lumber of white pine, unless otherwise specified. Dining and living room to have oak floor with oak finish; kitchen, maple floor with pine finish, as also bedrooms and bathroom, the latter having hot water connection with kitchen; hail, oak floor with pine finish. The porch to have hard pine floor, and to be converted into a vestibule in winter. French windows open from dining room to terrace. Doors to be of white pine, the front door of oak veneer. Upper windows to have beaded glass; lower, wood mullions. House to be heated by hot air furnace.





CANADIAN ARCH1TECT AND BUILDER STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR A FARM house, TO COST ABOUT $4,500.

DESIGN SUBMITTED BY "BYZANTINE" (MR. CECIL



BURGESS, 230 WOOD AVENUE, MONTRAL.



Exterior walls to be of field stone, with weathered shingle roof. Living room to have white pine wainscot, about 6 feet high. with plate rail cap, stained for an oak finish. Wainscot to be composed of boards about 10 inches wide, nailed to the wall, with a 3 inch strip planted on to cover joint of boards. Roughcast plaster between joists and above wainscoting. Floor Joists over living room to be adzed, joists to form a beamed ceiling. Dining room to have a burlap dado, with wood chair rail. All other rooms to be of pine painted. Floors throughout building to be Carolina pine. Basement floor to be of cement. All exterior trimmings, etc., to be painted chrome green, except doors, windows and shutters, which will be painted a darker green.



<article title=" NEW POST OFFICE BUILDING, MEXICO " author="">

NEW POST OFFICE BUILDING, MEXICO

Work commenced July 8th, 1901. Style mediaeval Spanish. known as ''plateresque.'' Total cost $2,921,

009.94. Interior of building of magnificent marble and onyx. the beautiful Italian bronzes of the doors being particularly striking.



<article title=" E. STANLEY MITTON ESTABLISHED IN WEST " author="">

E.	STANLEY MITTON ESTABLISHED IN WEST.

Mr. E. Stanley Mitton. architect, late of Toronto, has established an office at 70 Hastings Street West, Vancouver, B.C.







Nearly 800,000 tons of Portland cement have been used (luring the last ten years on British Naval works.



A laboratory for testing building materials has been established by the Bureau of Building Inspection of Philadelphia. Pa. A sample room has been established in connection with the laboratory, in which will he kept samples of every kind of building material approved by the bureau



one of the most unique styles of finish for the exterior of a building has come to light in Milwaukee, Wis.. where a one-story structure used for office purposes has been veneered with eight tons of grate coal, the largest size of hard coal sold in that section. The idea was conceived as an advertisement for the coal company occupying the building, and while the cost of the veneering was about as much as would have been the cost if brick were employed, it required three times the labor in laying. The coal was laid in a cement of lavender tint.

