<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" EMPLOYERS' COMBINATION NOT ILLEGAL " author="">

EMPLOYERS' COMBINATION NOT ILLEGAL.

A very interesting decision regarding trade combinations among employers was recently given in Montreal by Mr. Justice Saint-Pierre in the case of Lefebvre versus Knott. On June 10. 1905, the Association of Master Plasterers of Montreal were notified by the journeymen plasters who belonged to "The Journeymen Plasterers' Union.'' that after thc 3rd day of the following month they would no longer consent to work for the then universally accepted price of thirty-three and one-third cents per hour, but that they would insist upon their wages being advanced to forty cents per hour for a nine hour day. The master plasterers, many of whom had signed contracts to be executed during the opening season, based upon the scale of wages generally accepted at that time, and for whom a general strike at three weeks' notice would mean serious losses, if not utter ruin, felt that their only alternative was to make use of their rights under the Builders' Exchange as an in— corporation, and on June 22, an agreement was accordingly entered into at a special meeting, and signed by all the members present, to the following effect:

"Whereas, it is essential that the master plasterers in Montreal and vicinity, hereinafter called the subscribers, unite to protect their material interests, now, therefore, these present witnesses, the commercial firms and individual employers whose signatures are hereto attached, have mutually agreed and hereby severally and reciprocally bind and oblige themselves as follows:

''1. In the event of a strike being declared by 'The Plasterers' Union of Montreal,' said union shall not be recognized in any manner whatsoever on and after the 3rd day of July, 1905.

''2. In the event of a strike being declared by said 'union' against any of the subscribers to this agreement, all the subscribers shall immediately lock out all members of the said 'union,' then in their employ, and cease employing same.

''3             

''4 Subscribers shall retain the right to negotiate individually with any journeyman plasterer, whether a member of the 'union' or not, and arrange such scale of wages as he may see fit, not to exceed the present rate of 33 1-3 cents.



''6. The subscribers and each of them severally bind themselves to pay into a fund, as liquidated damages, for the violation of any cause in the present agreement, the sum of $300. As an admission of said liability and to secure the prompt payment of said damages, each of the said subscribers shall give a note bearing date not later than the 10th of July, 1905. This note shall be executed in favor of J. Lefebvre, John McLean and Joseph Chamberland, as 'trustees' for the Master Plasterers' Association; and shall be deposited with the secretary of said board.

''7. The provisions of clauses 5 and 6 hereof shall apply to such subscribers only as have union shops.

''8. 'the subscribers agree that their liability in damages under clause 6 hereof and for the amount therein stated, shalt immediately arise in the event of a decision of the subscribers to the effect that the present agreement has been violated.

''9              

''10. The clauses of this agreement relating to damages are hereby specially declared to be of the essence of this contract, without which the same would not have been made and binding upon all subscribers for the space of one year from the date thereof.''

Among the members of the Master Plasterers' Association who signed this agreement were Knott & Gardner, the defendants in the present case. A few days later, in furtherance of the object mentioned in the above agreement, and as a sanction to it, the same gentlemen gave to the three trustees named in the

above deed of agreement the five hundred dollar note which, under the terms of the coalition, they had bound themselves to sign and hand over to thc three trustees. As had been expected, in the month of July thc impending strike was finally announced to have begun, and the evidence shows that it was continued for a period covering several months.

About the middle of September, Knott & Gardner broke their engagement and yielded to the strikers' demands by paying their men forty cents an hour. The result of this action on their part proved highly detrimental to the other master plasterers. The strikers, encouraged by their defection, made up their minds to prolong the struggle, and by their doing so increased, in a large proportion, the losses of the other master plasterers, who remained faithful to their pledge. On being informed of the action taken by Knott & Gardner, the Association decided that these gentlemen should be made to pay the penalty of $500 agreed upon, and, on the 28th of September 1905, the present action, based upon the promissory notes signed by them, was taken out in the name of the three trustees, and served upon them.

The defendants alleged:

(1)	That they never received any consideration for the note in question, and that said note was given under circumstances which rendered the whole transaction illegal, null and void, inasmuch as the coalition or combination termed by the master plasterers was unlawful.

(2) That it is alleged and provided in the agreement, which formed the basis of the present action, that in thc event of a strike being declared by 'the journeymen plasterers' union, of Montreal, all members of said union should immediately be locked out of places of business of the said master plasterers, and that the said subscribers should cease employing any such members.



(3)	That it was also provided in said agreement that the parties thereto should have the right to negotiate with journeymen plasterers individually, whether members of such union or not, and arrange a scale of wages for employment, but that said scale of wages should not in any case exceed the sum of 33 1-3 cents per hour.

(4)	That the terms of said agreement in general and, more particularly the clauses above recited, are forbidden and prohibited by law as illegal and immoral, in restraint of the freedom of contracts and of trade generally.

(5)	That the present action is brought for the purpose of recovering a penalty alleged to be due by the defendants in virtue of their having, as alleged, paid wages in excess of the amount stipulated, to wit, in excess of 33 1-3 cents per hour, and for no other cause.

(6)	That it does not appear from the plaintiff's declaration that the persons seeking to recover the said penalty or any persons or association represented by them have suffered any (damage or that they are entitled to invoke any other legal and sufficient cause or action herein arising from failure or default of the defendants in any manner whatsoever.

(7)	That by their present action the plaintiffs seek to have the courts enforce and sanction an agreement which is, in effect, an illegal conspiracy to repress and restrain the free exercise of contract and the right to procure such services and pay such wages as a legal freedom of contract would allow.

(8)	That the said agreement and, particularly the specific clauses herein referred to, are unjust and oppressive, and constitute an attempt to create a trust or combine prohibited by law.

As will be noticed by the various allegations contained in the pleadings, the main question to he looked into was whether the proceedings resorted to by the master plasterers constituted a combination in restraint of the freedom of trade and, for that reason would be prohibited by law.

Formerly the fact of forming a combination for the

