<doctype type="text">14	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE LATE MR. HENRY LANGLEY " author="">THE LATE MR. HENRY LANGLEY.

Mr. Henry Langley, Architect, who died on the 9th day of January, was one of the oldest practitioners in the City of Toronto and was identified with its development and progress for many decades.

He identured while quite a young man to Mr. Win. Hay, an architect from Scotland who located in Toronto in the early fifties, but who returned to his native country at the expiration of' a few years, not finding sufficient encouragement for another architect, the field being occupied by Messrs. Thomas, Sheard, Howard and one or two others. Mr. Hay's principal work was the main building of the present Toronto General Hospital. Mr. Langley obtained a good training in































































<article title=" THE LATE MR. HENRY LANGLEY " author="">

THE LATE MR. HENRY LANGLEY.





Gothic architecture with Mr. Hay, and became the leading church architect of his day.

After Mr. Hay's return to Scotland Mr. Langley formed a partnership with Mr. Thomas Gundry, an English architect who came to this country a short time previously.

Mr. Langley had charge of the draughting and designing in the new firm, Mr. Gundry's old country training fitting him for the other branches of an architect's practice. He made a specialty of valuations and estimates, and was employed for several months in measuring and valuing extra work at the new Parliament Buildings in Ottawa. It was thought by some that the worry incident to this work was the cause of his illness and death which took place about the year

1867.

Mr. Langley continued to practice alone until 1872, designing, during those and the previous years, the Lieutenant-Governor's Residence, the Toronto Post Office, the John Macdonald warehouse, St. Michael's

Tower, Spire and Sacristy, St. Peter's Church Carlton St., St. Patrick's Church William St., Catholic Apostolic Church corner Gould and Victoria Sts., St. James Cathedral Tower, Spire, Porches and Reredos and the Agnes St. and Metropolitan Methodist Churches, he latter being won in a competition, the late Mr. Storm being his closest competitor.

The office buildings Nos. 15 and 28 Toronto St. were secured in limited competitions. He also designed the buildings at Nos. 21-23 Toronto St., the Imperial Chambers 32-34 Adelaide St. E., No. Adelaide St. E., the Excelsior Life Building Nos. 59-61 Victoria St., the Stovel Building (now occupied by Bilton Bros.) King St. West, Dufferin Public School, the Bank of B. N. A. and the Imperial Bank, residences for Thos. Thompson, Blaikie and Alexander, Edgar Jarvis, Judge Harrison, Win. Davies and others, as well as churches in various parts of the country from Chatham, Ont., in the west to St. John, N. B. in the east.

In 1872 Mr. Langley, took into partnership his brother, Mr. Edward Langley, a builder of practical experience, to whom was given the supervision of outside work, and his nephew and pupil, Mr. Edmund Burke, who practised under the firm name of Langley, Langley & Burke. The new firm was formed at a very prosperous period of Toronto's history and carried out a large amount of work, among which may be mentioned the J Jarvis St., College St., Walmer Road and Dovercourt Road Baptist Church, Old St. Andrews Presbyterian Church. Sherbourne, Trinity, Dunn Ave, and Central Methodist Churches, McMaster University, First Baptist Church, Winnipeg, several warehouses in the burned district, now destroyed, Residences for Robert Simpson, Jas. Carruthers, Mrs. A. R. McMaster, J. L. Blaikie, J. Pugsley, H. S. Mara, J. H. McKinnon and others.

On the retirement of Mr. Edward Langley about the year 1889, the firm was continued as Langley & Burke until the year 1892 when Mr. Edmund Burke retired to assume the practice of the late W. G. Storm, who died that year. On the retirement of his nephew, Mr. Langley took into partnership his son and pupil Mr. Chas. E. Langley, under the firm name of Langley & Langley, which continued until his death. Mr. Langley began to fail in health some eight or nine years ago and has not for several years taken any active part in his profession.

Mr. Langley was a man of great kindness of heart, upright in all his dealings with his fellow men, and one who from first to last upheld and practised honorably his chosen profession.

He was a charter member of the Ontario Association of Architects during the period of his active life and was made an honorary member when compelled to cease practice through advancing infirmity. He was also a member of the Royal Canadian Academy, member of its Council for a time, and a retired honorary Academician since 1905.

Among his pupils were Messrs. Edmund Burke,

Frank Darling, H. B. Gordon, A. A. Post, R. J.

Edwards, Wesley Peters, Chas. E. and Fred Langley,

C.	H. Acton Bond, J. C. B. Horwood, the late J. H.

Marling, Fred Kelley, Murray White, Ernest Wilby

and W. Ford Howland.



The Annual Convention of the National Association of Cement

Users was held in Chicago, from the 7th to the 12th inst.

There was a large attendance from all parts of the United

States, Canada being also represented. A number of instructive papers were read treating of the methods of using cement for various Constructional purposes.

