<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	'7'

<article title=" FIRST CONGRESS OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS " author="Dunlop, A. F.">

FIRST CONGRESS OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS



For the first time in their history, architects from all over Canada were gathered together in Montreal, from August 19-23 last, for what will be known in architectural annals as the first congress of Canadian architects. For months past, preparations looking towards the formation of a national association, which would embrace architects from all over the Dominion, had been in progress. Circulars had been sent out to the addresses of all known architects, inviting them to join in the formation of the Institute of Architects of Canada, and the responses were so encouraging to the provisional board, that arrangements were made for holding the congress. No pains were spared to make the affair successful, and throughout the entire convention a genuine esprit de corps was manifested by the delegates.

The convention was opened on Monday, August 119th, by an address of welcome by the Hon. W. A. Weir, Minister of Public Works of the Province of Quebec, the meeting being called to order by Mr. A. F. Dunlop, the president of the provisional board. The first day was given up entirely to business, morning, afternoon and evening, but on the succeeding days of the week the proceedings were varied by visits to points of interest in Montreal and vicinity. Invitations were extended to the delegates to visit the works of the Dominion Bridge Company, Warden King foundry, Montreal Terra Cotta Company, Canadian Doloment Flooring Company, Builders' and Contractors' Exhibition, and the quarries of the Phillips-burg Railway & Quarry Company at Phillipsburg, P.Q., at all of which places the visitors were most hospitably entertained.

On Tuesday morning a special train took the delegates to Ste. Anne de Bellevue, where a visit was paid to the Sir Win. C. MacDonald College, the visitors being shown through the buildings by the architects, Messrs. Hutchinson & Wood.

On Thursday evening the members dinner was held at the Windsor Hotel. This festivity was presided over by Mr. Dunlop, and passed off most successfully, an interesting feature being the presence of ladies at the tables. The meetings of the congress were held in the Assembly Hall of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, and to the delegates were extended the privileges of the Engineers' Club of Montreal, whose clubhouse is in close proximity to the Assembly Hall. Votes of thanks to both the Society of Civil Engineers and the Engineers' Club were passed at the congress for the courtesies extended to the delegates.

INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS OF CANADA.

<article title=" INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS OF CANADA " author="Dunlop, A. F.">

An event of more than passing importance to the architectural profession in Canada was the decision by this congress to bring before the Parliament of Canada an act incorporating the Institute of Architects of Canada, which act, on becoming law, would bind together in close corporation, all the practising architects of Canada. At present, Quebec and Alberta only, of all the provinces in the Dominion, have, close provincial corporations. The projected act, if put in force, will unite all other open provincial organizations and will give Quebec and Alberta the option

of coming in, if they so desire. Two projects of incorporation came up for consideration; the first of which contained a clause limiting the use of the title ''Architect" to the members of the Institute, the second omitting this clause. The delegates were practically unanimous in the desire to adopt project No. 1, which provided for a close corporation, but there were many lively discussions on particular sections of the proposed act. In regard to the proposal to limit the use of the title "Architect" to the members of the Institute, Mr. Eden Smith, of Toronto, wrote to the secretary, taking the ground that a close corporation such as the project advocated was undesirable as, in his opinion, it would be a means of fossilizing the organization, and that something better than mere mathematical ability was required to become an





















































A. F. Dunlop,

President Institute of Architects of Canada.





architect. Mr. F. Deggendorfer, of Edmonton, the president of the Alberta Association of Architects, took a diametrically opposite view of the question, and in a communication to the secretary stated that he was in favor of a close corporation without the option being given provincial organizations of becoming affiliated and what was wanted, in his opinion, was a law covering the whole Dominion. Mr. Deggendorfer's statement, backed as it was by the almost unanimous opinion of Quebec architects, who declared that the close corporation now in operation in Quebec had proved entirely satisfactory, carried great weight in influencing the delegates in adopting the close corporation scheme. Provision, however, was made to protect existing organizations, by a clause which reads as follows: "Nothing in this act shall be deemed to encroach upon the rights and privileges conferred on any association of architects which has received a charter by an act of the legislature in any province in the Dominion of Canada." It was further pointed

