A Word to Architects

and Builders

THE problem of LIGHT is very important in planning a building in the business section of Cities and Towns. We have solved the problem with our





LUXFER PRISMS



For Sidewalk Areas and Windows



Write for Circular LUXFER PRISM CO., Limited

	and Prices.	100 King Street West,

	TORONTO, ONT.

<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



presented to the buyer to-day, embodying every one of the foregoing qualifications and offering to the trade an article which is bound to give better satisfaction as a result than any other.

Cedar and spruce are being used extensively, but do not  possess all of the advantages of fir, which are so necessary to the successful marketing of the product. The greatest advantage, however, which these goods possess over fir is the fact that they are free from pitch, but unfortunately for them they cannot  l)e purchased for as low prices as fir, which after all is the great factor with distributors. It has been shown that none of our woods resist the actions of time as does our red cedar, nor will any of them take a finer finish than spruce, or work more readily under a cutting tool.

Our hemlock has thus far not  been a factor in porch columns. but is bound to become recognized as even superior to fir in the so-called solid columns, possessing, at the present time at least, the principal advantages of fir, and in addition to this. being free from pitch. and a trifle lighter when dry.

It is not  well known to the trade as many manufacturers are shipping hemlock columns with the fir, but that is hardly doing the former justice, for the wood ought to be recognized as well adapted to this class of work. Methods at present employed in the manufacture of these goods are receiving the attention of producers who are  realizing that our woods yield to a surprising extent to treatment, the opportunities in this direction being unlimited. Every one of the woods mentioned possesses peculiarities as to

grain and fibre which have caused manufacturers some very disastrous experiences, but that it is possible to produce them in such a manner that they will remain in a marketable state has been demonstrated beyond question. However, there are still features which will be greatly improved in the near future, for it takes times to prepare processes all(l equipment, all of which must be specially adapted to each one of the individual woods in this line of work. LUXFER PRISM CO., Limited

All of our woods are remarkably	free from defects which exist in every Eastern competitor's, notably the matter of blue sap and knots, hut as the trade becomes more familiar with the facts in the case Washington columns will correspondingly become more popular. -- "The Timberman."



PEACE PALACE ARCHITECT.

M.	Cordonnier of Lille, the famous architectural

constructor, has been elected to superintend the erection of the great peace palace at The Hague. The work will be under the general supervision of a. committee of five, of whom three will be trustees of the Carnegie fund,

Twenty-one architects, from almost every country in the world, including several Americans, among whom was Stanford White, competed for the prize of $5,200 offered by the trustees for the best design. No less than 3,038 designs were submitted, and the first prize was awarded to M. Condonnier for a plan in the style of the chateaux (if Northern France.

M. Condonnier. who is 52 years of age, designed the Pasteur statue of Paris. the Hotel de Ville at Dunkirk and, over 170 competitors. won the first prize in the international contest for the Stock Exchange at Amsterdam, for which Stanford White also submitted designs.

