<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	195

AN ATTRACTIVE BUNGALOW.<article title=" AN ATTRACTIVE BUNGALOW " author="">

The accompanying photograph of an attractive little bungalow, designed by Mr. J. W. H. Watts, R.C.A., of Ottawa, and built by Mr. Robert McGiffin, Aylmer, Quebec, is a style of house that presents several features attractive to prospective builders. The exterior







































is constructed with the ordinary baloon frame and clap-boarded. The wide sweep of verandah is particularly attractive in a summer home, while the













0



Shed











































serving









 Hall





closet 



























































GROUND FLOOR PLAN





closed-in balcony affords a delightful and shady retreat. The interior is done in clear pine and spruce, natural finish and varnished.

The sitting room is commodious and provided with an open fireplace and window seats. On the ground floor are also the dining room, with serving pantry

adjoining, and a roomy closet. From the hall, which opens off the sitting room, a platform stair leads to the first floor, where there are five bedrooms and bath. To supply this latter, and also the kitchen, water is pumped from the lake to a tank.

The kitchen is of one storey only and opens from







































the main hall. Access can also be had to the kitchen from the end of the verandah. To the rear are also woodshed and ice house.

	Linen

	Bed room	Bed room

Bed room















B









FIRST FLOOR PLAN





<article title=" REAL ESTATE MEN OPPOSE BUILDING INSPECTOR " author="">

REAL ESTATE MEN OPPOSE BUILDING INSPECTOR.

At a meeting of the London Real Estate Owners' Association, held recently in that city, the following resolution regarding the appointment of a building inspector was unanimously passed: "That in the opinion of this association, the appointment of a special building inspector would be quite unnecessary, as the three or four buildings per annum that it would be necessary to inspect could be done from the engineer's office."

The only buildings that this year would have required the services of a building inspector, it is urged, were the Reid Building, which is being erected in place of the structure that collapsed last July, and the new premises of Smallman & Ingram. The association thought the city engineer was in a position to do all the inspecting necessary, although up to the time of the Reid disaster he had little or no authority owing to there being no by-law empowering him to interfere in building operations.

