<doctype type="text">188	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



angles of the brick and tile were still intact after four thousand years.

The elaborate mosaic floors and pavements of the Romans formed a striking feature of their architecture. There are many examples of these mosaic floors in existence in Italy and throughout the former Roman colonies. The mosaics were formed of tesserae of marble and of baked clay, the latter being used to form the red, buff and brown colors. It is a noteworthy fact that in all these floors still in existence the marble portions have been well worn by use. while the clay tesserae are in almost perfect condition.

During the mediaeval centuries of Europe encaustic, or monastic, tiles were used extensively for the pavements in the interior of English churches and abbeys. Many well-preserved examples of these tiles, bearing the armorial, pictorial and symbolical designs traced by the monks, can be seen to-day in England; they are almost unworn by the tread of the countless multitudes who thronged the churches during the middle ages.

The relative durability of various flooring materials was tested several years ago by an ingenious experiment of Mr. Frank Purness, an architect of Philadelphia. The several specimens were cemented to identical blocks of sandstone, each of which weighed twenty-one pounds. Each sample presented a surface six inches square and a thickness corresponding to the usual thickness of flooring materials. They were placed face downward on a horizontal iron rubbing wheel, ten feet in diameter, which was run for one hour at a speed of seventy-five revolutions per minute. The blocks were held in place by a frame and the face of the wheel supplied with rubbing sand and water. The wear of the various flooring materials was then measured, showing the amount that was worn away by the wheel. The clay tile lost but one-eighth of an inch in thickness by the hour's grinding of the wheel; the Vermont marble lost three-quarters of an inch; the marble mosaic collapsed altogether, one inch being rubbed away within fifteen minutes, and the whole slab disappeared after thirty-five minutes. Owing to















































<article title=" TILED FLOOR IN CAPITOL, WASHINGTON, D. C." author="">

TILED FLOOR IN CAPITOL, WASHINGTON, D. C.



Coming from mediaeval Europe to modern America, one of the first tiled floors of note in this country was that in the Capitol at Washington, laid about fifty years ago. These tiles were made by an English firm. as half a century ago there was not a tile manufacturer in the United States. With the exception of one or two tiles at the entrance, which are worn less than an eighth of an inch, these tiles appear as if they had been put down but yesterday.

Ten years later an elaborate marble and slate floor was laid in a large hotel at Washington, but a short distance from the Capitol. To-day the marble slabs of this floor are in many cases worn completely through, especially in front of the door and the clerk's desk, and the holes are filled up with cement. As slate makes a more durable floor than marble, the alternating slabs of worn, marble form deep indentations, in many cases hollowed out as much as three-quarters of an inch between the harder slabs of slate But even the slate is worn considerably and cracked in many places.

the scientific accuracy with which this experiment was carried out, it was a valuable and reliable contribution to the practical knowledge of the architect and builder.

Another simple experiment by which the extreme durability of the ceramic tile can be demonstrated is to take an ordinary jack-knife and try to scratch the tile with the sharp steel blade. It will be seen that the hardest kind of steel does not make an impression on the vitrified or the unglazed floor tile, but merely leaves a mark resembling that of a lead pencil, and which can be removed by simply wiping it off with a cloth. If one tries the same experiment with a piece of marble, it will be found that steel easily scratches the marble. This is a very important consideration, especially for floors and hearths. The nails of the shoes will scratch and gradually wear out marble, but will make little or no impression upon tile.

Tile is the ideal covering for floor or wall. It is so hard that it cannot be scratched by the nails of the shoe or other sharp Pieces of hard material. As a fire

