<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	35

<article title=" A TRUE BASIS OF CONTRACT " author="Brown, C. E.">

A TRUE BASIS OF CONTRACT.

BY WM. BROWN, C E.



To the minds of many contractors the question often arises. '' Why are so many tenders rejected?''

To answer this query by indicating some points that may discover the cause and suggesting others that may be helpful to contractors in making out their  enders, so as to minimize the chances of rejection, is the aim of this article. The general ground for the rejection of tenders is because that they are all too high. Yet the judgment given is sometimes Very erroneous, because of no proper basis to arrive at this conclusion. Proprietors expect to have a certain amount of work done for a limited amount of expenditure, and if the tenders returned exceed the limit (notwithstanding t ha t the tenders, according 0 plans and specifications, have been carefully and reasonably prepared), yet they are rejected upon the ground of being too high. The fault in such cases does not rest upon the contractors when they have 

returned carefully calculated and prepared tenders. But disSTEWART N. HUGHES, of Toronto,

recently appointed President of the International Association of Master

House Painters and Decorators.



crcpancies may arise on the part of the contractor, being incapable of forming a proper' estimate.

This leads us to formulate what may he termed ''A True Basis of Contract.'' Th first element to be considered is an uniform method of extracting the quantities from t lie plans, and calculating the same, also pricing each item at current rates. When this procedure is adopted, a reliable tender may be formed. Bitt when each contractor adopts a method of his own, different from the others competing, it is natural to expect that there will be a disparity in the amounts (often very great in extensive contracts) that is very conflicting to the proprietor. The great necessity in  the first place is to have an uniform and well-wrought out system of measurement, with well—defined rules for each class of work, and having thoroughly trained professional men to measure the plans and prepare accurate schedules of quantites. which are supplied to each contractor tendering. When each item in the schedules is priced at current rates, and correctly calculated, then there should be very little difference between the amounts given in the tenders sent in. At any rate there will be the least chance or all the tenders being rejected. which sometimes occurs.

When such an accurate and reliable method is not at

hand, then the contractor has to do his best in extracting the quantities from the plans, in order to arrive at the amount. The methods of "cubing'' and ''squaring'' are not reliable in every case, so that a better plan is to take off as much detail as possible, that shall give him a basis upon which to price the time. and materials. labor to he expended, and percentage of profit required for each item. When this is intelligently and correctly done, then lie may come very close to his competitors. But whenever ''guess-work'' is resorted to then financial disaster may follow in its train. Time cost of materials, the time and labor expended on same, and the percentage of profit required are the most important factors which compose the true basis of every well-constructed con— tract. But in eases where it is impossible to execute the work at any prescribed amount, then no true basis can be established for the carrying out of the contract, except at a loss to the contractor. M any contractors, however, complete under such circumstances, which is not only prejudicial to their own interests and that of the proprietor, but also to the others competing, and to the trade in general. A contract may be drawn imp that seemingly has all the elements of a true basis, and yet either of the parties in the contract may agree to certain alterations which may not produce what may be termed ''a first-class' 'job. Thus an architect may allow a certain quality of material to he used that is inferior in quality to that specified for the purpose required, and yet no apparent breach be made, so long as the acquiescence of the proprietor is granted. But whenever this is done unknown to the proprietor, and against his wishes, then a breach in carrying out the terms of the contract might cause litigation. A true basis of contract can only lie fulfilled when there exists between the contractor and proprietor no ambiguity as to) the meaning of the written terms of the specification and general contract, and to) the details contained therein regarding the materials their quality and durability and to the time and labor expended in the execution and finish of time completed work. This means that the element of conformity to terms must have an important place in the basis of every thoroughly constructed schedule of contract. Without this the whole fabric of contract building would fall, and leave nothing but a disastrous ruin, it may be, to many victims.

But the contract terms must be so stated and minutely described that only one meaning ca n be

placed upon them. The question (If expenditure of money doles not necessarily enter into the ''true basis'' of a contract. Thus the error occurs frequently of rejecting all offers, lice ause they are seemingly too high. But this in many cases is the result of the standard put upon the amount of work expected by the proprietor, because (of the limited capital at his disposal. But if the proprietor is content to accept inferior material and workmanship in the construction of his building and specifies this accurately in his specification and contract, then lie may legitimately carry out his ideas upon a true basis of contract.

Another reason why so many tenders are rejected is because no details of prices are given for the different items required in the building, but only a lump sum offer, however large the amount. This is a greatly mistaken method to) aol opt, especially in extensive contracts. The chief characteristic feature, therefore, of

a true basis of contract'' consists more of a ' 'moral nature than of a ''materialistic,'' and if this were attended to) 01] thoroughly performed then en there would be fewer disputes and less cause for litigation.

