<doctype type="text">166	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



gather together at a busy time of the year for the sole purpose of studying building conditions, what would be the welcome accorded a similar exclusive builders' display at our National Exhibition? Not only would there be an audience of the trade, but the general public as well would be able at first hand to gather much valuable information on desirable building methods, suitable materials and the latest sanitary and fireproof devices. It is a common educational maxim that example is better than precept and a series of object lessons in structural building furnished by our National Exhibition would go far toward improving the health and comfort of our rapidly increased Canadian population.

<article title=" Institute of Architects of Canada " author="">

The Congress of Canadian

Institute of Architects of Canada Architects, called to meet in

of Canada

Montreal last month, had the

project of an Act of incorporation under discussion. There were two draught projects; the one having in view the establishment of a society for improving the status of the profession along general lines, the other seeking to exclude unregistered persons from practising as architects. This latter alternative was the one adopted by the meeting, and, although a number of minor changes were made in the draught as a result of this discussion, the project in the main stands as originally draughted.

The work of the Institute will be to "facilitate and encourage" the acquirement and interchange of professional knowledge amongst architects. The fact that registration, as the result of examination, will ultimately become compulsory on all entering the profession of architecture will establish this Institute as an examining body, and their power to enforce ·a given standard of efficiency in the necessary elements of an architect's work may be considered as one of the means, and a very cogent means, of ''encouraging'' the acquirement of knowledge. Men will not be allowed to drop into architecture casually, or simply because they are not fit for other professions.

It is to be hoped, however, that the new Institute will lay even more stress on ''facilitating'' the acquirements of knowledge. It is not to be expected that, as a body, it can establish or supervise schools or classes, and here must of necessity open up a fruitful field for the labors of the directorate of the new Institute. To the technical institutes, which are springing up in all parts of Canada, or preferably to the universities of the country, must eventually be relegated the instruction in the work required for architectural examinations. It is inevitable, however, that, until the project has been put upon a working basis, the scope of the examination must be very vaguely defined.

Apparently the abolition of examinations by those provincial bodies which now practise registration is not at present contemplated by the Institute. That such abolition must follow, however, seems inevitable, otherwise a needless duplication of examinations must

ensue.

The cause of architectural education may be materially aided, moreover, by an Institute which represents the profession throughout the Dominion, as the Government would then know precisely where to turn for information requiring special professional know-

ledge. The Government has of late shown signs of a desire to encourage artistic training in Canada, and the architectural profession ought to be ready at all times with advice and suggestion in all matters of constructional and decorative design. If national collections are to be made none should be better fitted to exercise catholic and sound judgment in selection and

·arrangement than men well trained in the study of architecture, and it may be added that none should be prepared to derive more benefit from such collections than students of architecture. Apart from educational matters, of course, the Institute could in many ways exert an influence on matters architectural which would be to the benefit both of the public and of the profession.

A number of clauses in the projected charter had reference to details of examinations and were, after discussion, withdrawn from the act itself, to be discussed by the board and included in the by-laws. The composition of the examining board, as suggested in clause 5, was approved with verbal amendments. This clause provides for a board of examiners of not less than seven persons, who shall be resident in the Dominion of Canada, to examine candidates for admission to the study or for admission to the practice of architecture. Two of these, qualified and competent to examine all candidates for the preliminary and final examinations in French or in English, at the option of the candidate, shall be appointed by the Council, one member from McGill University, one from Laval University, and one from Toronto University, This clause shows a praiseworthy desire to work in accord with the great centres of learning.

It may be noted in this connection that university students of architecture consider it rather a grievance that, after obtaining their academic diploma, they should still be required to pass an Association's examinations before being admitted to the practice of their profession. They argue on a perfectly logical analogy from the system in use' in the medical profession. A student is entitled to practise medicine immediately after he has obtained his diploma. It is true that lack of experience and of opportunity may render him incompetent to do so. His training has fitted and equipped his mind for entrance to actual practice. and this he is free to obtain as he can find opportunity. It has been decided, however, to try to establish this Institute of Architects of Canada as an examining body, and, if there is not one gate for all, with a fixed standard for admission, there is likely to be dissatisfaction and allegations of unequal justice amongst disappointed candidates.

The provisional board which has been at work organizing the Institute has been nominated "en bloc" as the first Council of the Institute. These represent cities all the way from Halifax to Vancouver, and are worthy of confidence in undertaking a difficult and, from a pecuniary point of view, unrememberative labor. Many, perhaps too many, well-known names are absent from the list. It will take time, however, to arouse general interest in a project whose raison d'etre is as yet imperfectly understood by many whom it aims to benefit, but doubtless the day will come when indifference will be superseded by a keen interest in a project from which no architect should hold himself aloof.

