<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	29

<article title=" DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE " author="">DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE.

A four room plaster gable house built of frame on a brick foundation. No basement. Main body of house is 24 feet by 30 feet. Has pantry and three closets in addition to the four rooms. Front and rear porches. Arranged to be heated by stoves. Estimate cost is

$600.

<article title=" HEATING A COTTAGE " author="">

HEATING A COTTAGE.

In discussing the question of heating a village dwelling by means of stoves, Dr. harvey B. Bashore

To reduce these defects to a minimum it is necessary to alter somewhat the construction of the rooms. Everyone knows the value of the open grate, not so much as a heater, but as an equalizer of room temperature, and herein lies our remedy. Every room should have such a grate, or its equivalent, simply an air shaft connected with the chimney and opening into the room at the floor level. An air shaft so arranged and of suitable dimensions answers almost as well as an open grate and furnishes the means whereby rooms may be heated very well with ordinary stoves.

When a room which has no fire place is heated, the







































states that the halls are usually cold, and, in addition, even in the rooms where the stoves are placed, the floors are from 6 to 8 degrees colder than the temperature 4 or 5 feet above, a fact easily proved by experiment, says Carpentry and Building. As a consequence one's feet are just so much colder than head and shoulders. These two defects, cold halls and floors, are certainly factors in producing catharral inflammation of the throat and nose, if nothing worse.

heated air rises and spreads along the ceiling in a thick cloud, and if a window is opened the warm air rushes out before it has done much good if, on the other hand, there is an open grate, some of the hot air escaping up the chimney creates a partial vacuum; this consequently creates in the room a movement toward the opening, and the upper heated air is more diffused about the room, making the temperature more uniform.

The halls, whether they contain a stove or not, should have an air shaft, for it will assist somewhat in ''sucking out" the heated air of the adjoining rooms A small oil heater placed in the lower hall will be of assistance in keeping the hall temperature at the right point. ______________________





A case was recently tried in the High Court of Justice at London, Ont., by the Hon. Mr. Justice Clute, the plaintiffs being the Ideal Concrete Machinery Company, of South Bend, Inn., and the defendant Mr. Henry Pocock, of London.

The dispute arose over the question as to whether or not Mr. Pocock was infringing on the patents of the plaintiffs, in manufacturing and selling London concrete block machines. His Lordship's 's remarks and judgment were as follows:— With reference to the main question, the validity of the patent and as to whether or not the defendant has infringed the same, it has not been seriously contended before me that the plaintiff's patent is not a valid patent, that it is not a new invention—indeed the experts upon both sides concurred in the statement that they believe that it is. Upon the whole case, therefore, I am of opinion that the defendant has infringed the plaintiff's patent; that in manufacturing and offering for sale machines corresponding with that produced, called Exhibit No. 6, there was an appropriation of the plaintiff's invention, that it is only colorably different from the plaintiff's, that it is appropriating that for which the plaintiff has been granted a patent, and that lie ought not to be permitted to continue such infringement. The judgment will, therefore, go to continue the injunction already granted, with a direction that a list that has been kept of the proposed purchasers from the defendant be delivered over to the plaintiff in terms of the order and direction of the learned Chancellor. The plaintiff is entitled to his costs. I direct judgment to be entered for the plaintiff, and that the injunction be continued; that the judgment declare that the plaintiff's patent is valid, and that the defendant has infringed the plaintiff's patent, and that the defendant deliver to the plaintiff a list of the probable purchasers, as directed in the interim injunction order.

