Sections of Footings.

<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" FOUNDATIONS OF TRADERS BANK BUILDING, TORONTO " author="">

FOUNDATIONS OF TRADERS BANK BUILDING, TORONTO

When the designs were made for the fifteen storey steel cage building of the Traders Bank of Canada, Toronto, the architects were advised that the site was on a deep stratum of hard clay of great strength with an almost unlimited bearing capacity. They therefore designed separate rectangular concrete piers calculated to reduce the maximum column loads to a pressure of about 10,000 pounds per square foot.

The site of the building has apparently at one time

It was, however, moderately dry and tenacious, but evidently could not be depended upon to carry a. heavy load after penetrating the upper crust, although, if that were undisturbed for a reasonable thickness above the soft stratum, it was, like that of the analogous stratum in Chicago, competent to carry ordinary loads satisfactorily.

In order to secure an accurate test of its bearing capacity, Mr. Brainard, consulting engineer, New York, had a pit excavated to a depth of 20 feet below the curb and in the centre of the bottom prepared

































Plan and Section of Footing.



















Elevation of Columns and Footings.







































Foundation Plan, Traders' Bank of Canada.



 been a part of the lake bottom and consists of a deep sedimentary stratum of clay, the upper portion of which has been solidified into a very hard dry crust, which, as was stated, proved very reliable and satisfactory for the ordinary buildings of 4 to 6 storeys in height, adjacent to the bank building. The footings of these buildings were, however, carried down only about 12 feet below the curb, while those of the bank extend to a depth of about 25 feet.

When the excavation was made it was noted that the clay softened slightly below the surface, until at a depth of 17 feet there was a rapid change noticeable, and the consistency became very soft, like putty.

a bearing surface with great care, taking pains to personally dress and scrape it to an exactly uniform horizontal surface with a 14 inch steel straight edge. The ends of a 12 x 12 inch timber about 6 feet long were then cut exactly square and smooth and a horizontal platform about 4 feet square was secured at the upper end. Two pairs of horizontal guide strips at right angles to each other were set across the pit to closely engage the four faces of the 12 x 12 inch post and it was carefully plumbed and lowered through them until its foot rested exactly on the point previously determined by a plumb bob on the prepared surface in the centre of the pit.

