<doctype type="text">34	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





CEMENT AND CONGRETE









[NOTE —Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers]

FORMS FOR CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION<article title=" FORMS FOR CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION " author="Thompson, Sanford E.">

By SANFORD E. THOMPSON, M. AM. S.C E.



The selection of the lumber for forms for concrete construction must be governed by the character of the proposed work and the local market. Although white pine is best for fine face work, and quite essential for ornamental construction cast in wooden forms, for ordinary work, and even for panels, white pine is too expensive, and spruce, fir Norway pine or the softer qualities of southern pine, especially North Carolina pine, may be substituted. Some of these woods are more liable to warp than white pine, but they are generally stiffer and thus better adapted for struts and braces.

Kiln dried lumber is not suitable for form construction, because of its tendency to swell when the wet concrete touches it. Very green lumber, on the other hand, especially southern pine, which does not close up quickly when wet, may give trouble by joints opening. Therefore, the middle ground, or in other words partially dry stuff, is usually best.

Either tongued and grooved or bevel edged stuff will give good results for floor and wall panel forms, and is preferable to square edged stuff. A smoother surface may be attained at first with the tongued and grooved stock, and there is less trouble with opening joints, but it is more expensive than bevel edge because of the waste in dressing, and if the forms are used many times there is greater tendency to wear at the joints. Even for rough forms, plank planed one side may be economical or cheapen the cost of cleaning. studs should always he planed on one side to bring to size.

The thickness of the lumber varies with different contractors, some using 1 inch, others 1 1-2 inch, while a few employ 2 inch stuff even for panels. (These are commercial thicknesses measured before planing.) For ordinary walls 1 1-2 inch stuff is good, although for heavy construction, where derricks are used. 2 inch is preferable. For floor panels, 1 inch boards are most common, although, if the building is 8 storeys high or over, 1 inch stuff is likely to be pretty well worn out before the top of the building is reached, and the under surface of the concrete may show the wear badly. For sides of girders either 1 inch or 1 1-2 inch is sufficient, while 2 inch is preferable for the bottoms. Column forms are generally made of 2 inch plank.

Certain general rules are applicable to all kinds of forms. Strength. simplicity and symmetry are three fundamental principles of design. The necessity for strength is obvious, while economy in concrete construction consists in quickly erecting and moving the forms and in using them over and over again.

In building construction the forms must be de

signed so that the column moulds and also the bottom of beam moulds are all independent of the slabs. The forms may thus be left a longer time upon members subjected to the greater stress.

The sides of the beam moulds should be held tightly together by wedges or clamps, to prevent the pressure of the concrete springing them away from the bottom boards. At top or bottom of each strut hardwood wedges are useful when setting and removing it, while they also permit testing to make sure that there is no deflection of the beam or slab. For this purpose some contractors loosen the wedges twenty-four hours in advance of the struts. In general it is preferable to use comparatively light joists, such as 2 x 8 inches or 2 x 10 inches, with frequent shores, rather than to use lumber which is heavier to handle.

If forms are to be used but once or must be taken apart when removed, it is sometimes practicable to use only a few partially driven nails so that they can be withdrawn without injury to the lumber. It is very difficult to convince house carpenters that the pressure of the concrete will hold temporary panel boards in place with scarcely any nailing.

Forms for facework should be tightly put together, it being advisable in some cases to close the joints and holes by mortar, putty, plaster of Paris, sheathing paper or thin metal. This is not, as is commonly supposed, to prevent loss of strength by the cement which flows out with the water, but rather to prevent the formation of voids or stone pockets in the finished surface.

Crude oil is one of the best materials to prevent adhesion of the concrete to the forms, though linseed oil, soft soap and various other greasy substances are also employed for this purpose. The oil or grease should be thin enough to flow and fill the grain of the wood.

If the forms are to be left until the concrete is hard, there is little danger of the concrete sticking to them if instead of being greased they are wet thoroughly with water before the concrete is laid. In any case, if concrete adheres to the forms it should be thoroughly cleaned off before resetting; even then it is apt to stick again in the same place.

"Rule of thumb" layout of forms in the field is being superseded by design in the drawing room. In building construction where the forms form a large percentage of the cost of the building and where a failure in the forms may cause loss of life, it is especially necessary to treat this question from an engineering standpoint, and many of the best concrete contractors now design their forms as carefully as the dimensions of the concrete members.

In ordinary walls, where the concrete is placed in layers. general experience has shown that maximum spacing for 1 inch boards is 2 feet, for 1 1-2 inch plank

