<doctype type="text">54	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

CANADIAN PLUMBER<article title=" CANADIAN PLUMBER " author="">

HEATING AND LIGHTING ENGINEER

(NOTE.— Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers.]

<article title=" PLUMBER SHOULD POSSESS VERSATILITY " author="">

PLUMBER SHOULD POSSESS VERSATILITY.

That the modern plumber should be endowed with a love of the aesthetic as well as possess a general knowledge of civil, sanitary and structural engineering, is a view that is constantly coming into more general recognition. There is a growing public sentiment that demands the artistic in construction, and this is especially true with regard to plumbing and all sanitary work. Combined with his knowledge. more peculiarly technical, the plumbing engineer will find that it is well to have some acquaintance with the law, as his duties will probably call him into different provinces and cities, where different codes and ordinances concerning health and property prevail. Also he should have a good understanding of contracts and the rights of tenants and patentees who may also be interested in his projects.

An acquaintance with the customs of the different building trades will assist in the art of accurate estimating and will facilitate the speed of construction, and the correct execution of the design. He should he up-to-date on the costs of materials and of patented articles, and on the cost and capacities of common and skilled labor.

The rapid evolution of modern engineering makes it difficult to prophesy what duties may fall to the specialist in plumbing.

<article title=" SUCCESSFUL HEATING BY HOT AIR FURNACE " author="">

SUCCESSFUL HEATING BY HOT AIR FURNACE.

In considering the heating of a modern building by means of a hot air furnace, the first and most important consideration will he tile location of the furnace itself, and of the registers. Air, like water, will always flow in the direction of least resistance therefore, it naturally follows that in placing registers in a room great care should be taken to favor that location where the least resistance will be met with from the incoming flow of air. As cold air is denser and heavier than warm, it follows that the proper location for a register in a room should be the warmest place in that room, i.e., on that side farthest from outside influences. Having first located the registers, place the furnace, keeping three facts in mind. First, remember that the greater the elevation of a warm air pipe the more rapid the flow of air: second, that the air will flow more rapidly toward the point of least resistance: third, that the velocity of the air is dependent on tile height of the outlet above the furnace and on the amount of frictional resistance in the pipe, in other words, on the length of the run and the pressure resistance in the room in which the register is placed. Therefore rooms having tile greatest exposure in the direction of the prevailing winds, on the first floor, naturally should be nearest to the furnace and should have a larger pipe and register. Rooms which are remote from the furnace, necessitating a long horizontal run of pipe, should have larger pipes. Aim to minimize the frictional resistance in all pipes by avoiding all square turns or abrupt angles. Insist on having at least one inch rise to the running

foot of pipe from the furnace to the register. Long runs of pipe, especially when going through cold rooms, should he wrapped with asbestos paper pipes going through stone or brick walls should have thimbles one inch larger diameter than thc pipe. In the adjustment of the pipe work, bear in mind that the pressure of tile air is equal Oil all pipes at tile furnace. If, therefore, some of the pipes do not flow as freely as others, the cause of that trouble may be looked for either in tile frictional resistance in the pipes, pressure resistance in the rooms into which these pipes lead, or on the pressure of an adjacent pipe, having the advantage of elevation, and taking more than its proportion of the heated air. Should the trouble be caused by frictional

 resistance, look for obstructions to the free and natural flow of air, such as abrupt angles, etc., and remove them. If this does not furnish the remedy, then increase the size of the pipe. If the trouble is caused by pressure resistance in the room itself, this resistance is caused by air pressure in the room, and some outlet must be provided before satisfactory results can be obtained. A very satisfactory solution to this difficulty can be had by cutting an opening ill the base-board of an inside partition between two studs. and utilizing the space between two studs and plaster walls for the vent duct. The

plates on top of the studs must be cut, 011(1 the duct be unobstructed to the attic. Generally speaking, the air will find its way out of the attic, hut in case it does not do so, an opening can be made in some unused chimney, or sonic other means employed to overcome the difficulty. When inside air is used all doors must be left open and chimneys or fireplaces closed.



<article title=" STEAM MAIN QUICKLY REPAIRED " author="">

STEAM MAIN QUICKLY REPAIRED.

The repairing of a steam main, 6 inches in diameter, has been thus described by Mr. Henry Jostes, of Willoughby, Ohio: A crack developed in the pipe, running half-way around one of the flanges at its junction with the pipe. A peice of flanged cast iron pipe about 6 feet long had to be removed and a new length of pipe ordered. Meanwhile the plant had to be kept running and temporary repairs quickly made. The pipe was cut off by a 12-inch hack saw as close to the crack as possible, and the end filed up smooth and square. It was then found to be just 2 inches short. Two blank flanges were then drilled to fit the flanges in the pipe line, and three jackets were procured, two of them being placed between the extra flanges and the flange of the old pipe in the line, and the other was placed on the top of the two extra jackets, and the cutoff end of the broken pipe was placed against the new jacket mentioned. A set of bolts long enough to pass through the remaining flange on the broken pipe and its companion flange in the line, also through the two new flanges and their jackets and through the fixed flange at the other end of the break in the steam line, was procured. The cut-off end of the broken pipe was carefully adjusted so as to be central with the extra flanges and jackets, and while held fast in that position the nuts were screwed up on the long bolts, and time broken piece of pipe, together with the extra flanges and jackets, clamped firmly together. So well did this arrangement work that after the new piece of pipe arrived it was not put in position. the long bolts holding the pipe line in good operating condition for many years.

