<doctype type="text">198	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 

<article title=" A Semi-Detached Concrete Dwelling House " author="">A Semi-Detached Concrete Dwelling House



Over two hundred plans, representing as many different types of concrete dwelling houses, were received by the Association of American Portland Cement Manufacturers in response to their competition, held a few months ago. The conditions of the competition stipulated that the designs were to be of two classes, single or detached and twin or semi-detached. In both cases the use of cement and concrete was desired

The first prize of $200 for a semi-detached two and one-half storey house, of seven or eight rooms, to cost not more than $4,500, was awarded Eugene Ward, jr., of 11 E. 24th street, New York. The judges' report on this plan was as follows: ''This design is excellent and individual in both plan and elevation, particularly in elevation. The wall surfaces lend themselves readily to monolithic construction, although















































MAIN ELEVATION.



wherever practicable: ''Walls must be constructed of hollow concrete blocks of plain, paneled or bush-hammered face but not rock-face; or they may be of monolithic construction. If hollow blocks are used interior plastering will be applied directly to the blocks; if monolithic construction, wall furring will be required. Wood floor joists and roof timbers may be used; roof coverings may be ·of cement, tiles, slate or shingles. Concrete block partitions, at least for the lower storey, are preferred. Chimneys are to be of concrete block or brick; the use of cement for posts, cornices, porch railings and other details ·of simple design is suggested.

"A prime requisite of domestic architecture, whether palace or modest dwellings, is that it should possess beauty, charm and appropriateness. The exterior finish of concrete walls has rarely been handled in a way to produce artistic results. The fault does riot lie with the material, as it lends itself to a great variety of textures and colors."

The award of the competition was based on excellence in artistic quality, convenience of floor arrangements and economy of construction. Separate premiums were given for houses of one or one and one-half storeys in height (three or four rooms), cost not to exceed $2,000; houses of two storeys (five or six rooms), cost not to exceed $3,000, and houses of two or two and one-half storeys in height (seven or eight rooms), cost not to exceed $4,500. In the case of the semi-detached dwellings the sum stipulated is to he understood meaning one-half of the total cost of the pair.

plastering on concrete is open to criticism where exposed to the weather. The drawings are well drawn and rendered."













































SIDE ELEVATION. 





The following description accompanied the plans: -- Outer walls and porch posts to be of monolithic concrete construction. Cellar and porch posts to be concrete. Outer walls to be 8 inches thick, cemented on the outside and furred with wood

