<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	75

arranged in a vertical series. produce a column-like effect. Such a column is extremely painful to some



people. But this is merely incidental. The fundamental difficulty is to make a steel building look sincere. that is, to make it look like a steel building.

Now the central fact in a steel building is the steel column. Yet how can the fact of the existence of steel columns be even indicated to the occupant of the building? In the first place, it has to he concealed with terra cotta in order to render it fireproof. In the second place, it has to be still further concealed in  order to make it attractive to the average eve. The steel column, by itself, is comparatively narrow and

HOW TO MAKE PUTTY.<article title=" HOW TO MAKE PUTTY " author="">

Pure putty is usually made in what is known as a ''chaser,'' of whiting and linseed oil. The proportions are about eighty-five pounds of whiting and fifteen pounds of raw linseed oil. Bolted American Paris white is commonly used in this country for the purpose, though I suppose you would probably use an

imported whiting. Of course these proportions arc only tentative and must be varied according to the consistency of the mass produced.

quick drying putty boiled linseed oil is used instead of raw, and about ten per cent. of dry white lead is added to the whiting.

This is the old recipe for pure putty. At the present time, however. very little commercial putty is



































































<article title=" CHICAGO SKY SCRAPER, SHOWING STEEL ERECTED AWAY IN ADVANCE OF MASONRY " author="">

CHICAGO SKY SCRAPER, SHOWING STEEL ERECTED AWAY IN ADVANCE OF MASONRY.



superlatively angular and ugly thing. People demand that it be padded out and made to look symmetrical before it is allowed to appear in the walls of the finished rooms. If the steel column were exhibited to the tenant in its original shape it would look sincere. hut its sincerity, like that of many human beings, would not bring it many friends.

The difficulty we have with the column is the difficulty that exists for the whole building. The frame of the building must he of steel. Yet it is very puzzling to discover any way Of finishing the rest of the building with any reference to that fact. As things stand to-day, the modern office building continues to look as if it depended on masonry, while in reality it depends on metal.



Australian Yate is believed to be the strongest of all known woods. Its average tensile strength is 2,400 lbs. to the square inch, equalling that of cast iron. The tree grows to a maximum height of 100 feet and sometimes has a diameter of 2 1/2 or even 3 feet.

made	according	to this	formula, large proportions	of

crude cotton seed oil (known in trade as "putty oil") being substituted for some of the linseed oil and bailed linseed oil being used instead (If raw to counteract the slow drying qualities of the cotton seed oil. In stead of fine Paris white common whiting with varying proportions of fine marble dust is used. it is claimed that cotton seed oil, which never becomes so reck-like as linseed oil in whiting, is preferable on many occasions to the latter. —Exchange.

<article title=" JOINTLESS FLOORS " author="">

JOINTLESS FLOORS.

The use of jointless flooring, made from pulverized wood fibre and other materials, and laid in a plastic condition on a cement foundation, was begun in Germany about ten years ago. This flooring has proved so successful that several mills manufacturing the same product were started and are now running prosperously. The problem has been to make a continuous flooring which will fit closely at its junctions with time upright walls, and be not only fireproof but impervious to liquids, dust and vermin of all kinds.

