<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" CANADA'S ADVISORY COUNCIL OF FINE ARTS " author="Reid, G. A.">

CANADA'S ADVISORY COUNCIL OF FINE ARTS.

In consequence of the efforts of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts, the Federal Government recently appointed an Art Commission, to he known as the Advisory Council of the Fine Arts, composed of Mr. Byron E. Walker, Toronto, and Sir George Drummond and lion. Arthur Boyce, Montreal. The memorial of the Academy, which was presented to the Governor-General. and outlines the lines along which the efforts of the new Commission will be directed, reads as follows:

To His Excellency, the governor-general:

The Council of the Royal Canadian Academy beg leave to place before Your Excellency the following considerations and suggestions with a view to securing a more adequate encouragement of the Fine Arts in Canada. Whilst they realize that the rapid growth of the Dominion in a material sense has prevented in some degree the attention due to the Fine Arts, they are hopeful, hearing in mind the frequently expressed interest in the welfare of Canadian Art on the part of your Excellency and your advisers, together with the general growth of interest in public Art and the great prosperity of Canada. that the present conditions will soon he ameliorated.

Although an improvement might perhaps be effected without changing the present system of aid. the Academy believe that no really satisfactory results will be obtained without a clearly defined plan based on the requirements of the country in its present stage of development, and they are of opinion that the time has come for the concentration in one section of the administration of all matters connected with the national encouragement of Canadian Art.

That such a plan may be secured, your memorialists respectfully ask for the appointment of a Commission in order that a well-considered report may be prepared. and they submit the following points as the basis for the work of such Commission

1—The establishment of a section in connection with the Department of Public Works to deal with all matters connected with the Fine Arts.

2——That the head of this section should be the Director of the National Gallery of Art and its collection. and should be possessed of a wide knowledge of the Fine Arts.

3—That there should be an Advisory Council of the Fine Arts, composed of painters, sculptors, architects and laymen, such Council to be appointed by the Royal Canadian Academy, but that the Director need not necessarily act in accordance with such advice.

4—That the national collection should be representative of all periods and phases of Art, and inasmuch as that object could be achieved only by the exercise of extreme care and judgment and would necessarily be a slow process, whether it would not be advisable in the meantime to procure the best possible copies, casts and models of notable works of various periods from the galleries of Great Britain and Europe

5—That as a rule all works of Art, the execution of which is controlled by the Federal Government, be entrusted to Canadian painters, sculptors, designers and architects, and that care should be taken. and all means possible employed to secure the highest order of merit.

6——That there should be an annual estimate or allotment of funds for expenditure in connection with the Fine Arts.

7—That the Royal Canadian Academy grant for expenses should be increased to $6,000 per annum.

The adoption of the foregoing suggestions would, your memorialists believe, have the following results:

In the first place, the creation of such a section or bureau, with a competent head and an Advisory Council, would so systematize and control all efforts on the part of the Federal Government in connection with the Fine Arts that the highest order of merit would be secured and the best value obtained, and by the use of such expert knowledge and advice would also be ensured the proper development of the National Gallery.

In the second place the grant of $2,000, made annually since the foundation of the Academy twenty-seven years ago, is now insufficient to do the work which the great expansion of the country demands. An increase of this grant to $6,000 would make it possible to provide annual scholarships for artists and architects and to hold exhibitions in the extreme eastern and western parts of Canada. besides the annual exhibitions in the central part of the country; and, in short, would enable the Academy to carry on with some degree of success the work entrusted to it by its Act of Incorporation and to achieve results manifestly impossible with its present  inadequate means.

Signed on behalf of the Council of the Royal Academy of Arts.

G. A. REID,

President.

In this memorial the Academy asked for a Commission of the usual character, which should make a report and out of existence, and that the members of the Academy should themselves appoint an Advisory Council of the Fine Arts. however, the Government did not see its way clear to carry out the plan as proposed an(1 themselves appointed a permanent Commission of three, as named above.

In this appointment Canada stands in the unique position of having the only Commission in the world which has the power to advise the Government on all matters connected with the Fine Arts. The principle is not new, as there are many Art Commissions in existence the world over, which have been appointed for various purposes. Art Commissions, Councils and Committees are numerous, and the results in almost every ease have been satisfactory. The manifest advantage of Canada 's Commission is that it will have supervision of the Fine Arts under the control of the Dominion Government throughout Canada, and, while at present its full scope is undetermined, it is likely to have charge of all public monuments, public portraits, both in sculpture and painting, the supervision of the National Gallery of Art and purchases for the same, and will, in connection with the Chief Architect's Department, advise concerning the design and decoration of all buildings of importance under the control of the Federal Government.

The personnel of the Commission has been admirably chosen; its members are men whose standing in general affairs is of the highest, and whose knowledge of the Fine Arts is respected by all belonging to the professions of painting, sculpture and architecture.

It is now in order for the various provinces and cities to adopt similar methods. Recently the suggestion was made by the Property Commissioner of Toronto that a committee be appointed to take charge of a scheme of decoration for the City Hall, which has been drawn up by the Toronto Guild of Civic Art.

