<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	127

<article title=" CONGRESS OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS " author="">

CONGRESS OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS.

The first Congress of Canadian Architects and first annual meeting of the Institute of Architects of Canada will be held in Montreal, August 19 to 23 next. At this meeting the project of the act of incorporation of the proposed Institute will be discussed. The provisional or temporary board of organization is composed of the following: President, A. F. Dunlop, R.C.A., P.Q.A.A., Montreal; vice-presidents, Edmund Burke, Toronto; Maurice Perrault, P.Q.A.A., Montreal; S. Frank Peters, Winnipeg; secretary, Alcide Chausse, R.I.A., M.L.A., Montreal; treasurer, J. W.

H.	Watts, R.C.A., Ottawa; council, Wm. H. Archer, F.A.I.A., Vancouver; C. D. Chapel, Charlottetown, P.E.I.; F. Deggendorfer, Edmonton, Alberta; David Ewart, I.S.O., O.A.A., Ottawa; G. E. Fair-weather, St. John, N.B.; H. E. Gates. Halifax, N.S.; H. B. Gordon, Toronto; W. H. Hilton, Regina, Sask.; R. P. Le May, Quebec; H. C. McBride, O.A.A., London; L. Munro, O.A.A., M.S.A., Hamilton; P. B. Pratt, M.A.A., A.R.E., H.W.A., Winnipeg; Eden Smith, Toronto; Joseph Venne, Montreal. It will be noted that the personnel of this provisional board is composed of architects from every province of the Dominion.

The meetings of the Congress will be held in the assembly hall of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, 413 Dorchester street west. Addresses of welcome will be given by Mayor A. H Ekers of Montreal and Hon. W. A. Weir, Minister of Public Works for Quebec Province. The following subjects will be discussed in the order named:

1. Organization of the Institute of Architects of Canada. Revising proposed Act of Incorporation, etc.

2. Representation of Architectural interests in the Royal Canadian Academy's Membership.

3. Uniformity of Building Laws.

4. Public Architectural Competitions.

5. Duty on Plan from Foreign Architects.

6. Responsibilities of Governments in the Conservation of Historical Monuments.

7. Architectural Copyright.

8. International Congress of Architects, Vienna,

1908.

All members, whether in attendance at the Congress or not, are invited to take part in these discussions in writing, and their contributions will be presented at the meetings. It is requested that all discussions be brief and to the point, the time limit for each discussion having been fixed at ten minutes.

The general program of entertainment has not yet been completed, but comprises the following:

A reception by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Montreal.

The directors of the Dominion Builders' and Contractors' Exhibition have kindly offered to issue invitations to visit the Exhibition in Victoria Rink during the Congress week.

An all-day drive will be arranged to visit works of building interest in Montreal.

Invitations have been received to visit the Montreal Terra Cotta Lumber Works, at Maisonneuve, and thc Dominion Bridge Company's Works at Lachine.

A reception by the President and Council of the

I.A.C.

The Board of the Engineers' Club, Beaver Hall

Square, have kindly elected all delegates to the Congress honorary members of the club, from the 19th to 23rd of August. Delegates are requested to show their card of identity on entering the club.

The Dominion Park Company, Limited, have kindly offered admission to their amusement park on Tuesday evening, August the 20th, to all delegates and ladies.

<article title=" COMPETITION FOR. DOMINION GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS " author="">

COMPETITION FOR. DOMINION GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.

In response to the request for designs in the competition for the proposed new Government Departmental Building opposite Major Hill Park, Ottawa, some thirty designs have been received from architects in various parts of Canada. The competition closed July 1, and the judges who have been chosen to decide the winner in the competition are already at their task and will shortly announce their decision.

In consideration of the vast amount of building now going on in the larger cities of the Dominion, and the consequent demand made upon the time of architects, the number of plans submitted is encouraging in the extreme. Four Toronto firms are said to be competing. The time and money necessary for making a complete set of specifications tends to debar many who might otherwise stand a chance of securing first place.

The prizes are as follows: First, $8,000; second, $4,000; third, $2,000, and fourth, $1,000. These prizes are scarcely commensurate with the vast amount of work involved in getting out plans for such an expensive building as the one contemplated by the Government, but the honor of winning in such a contest is the primary consideration. As the buildings are to cost between $ 3,000,O00 and $ 4.000,000, an architect executing a design at the regular charge of one per cent. would be entitled to between $30,000 and $40,-

000.

The conditions governing the competition provide that the use to be made of the permitted plan is for suggestion only, so that there is no guarantee that the successful architect will be permitted to take charge of the actual building. The Government has its own large staff of engineers and architects. and may simply put some of these to work on the successful plans. If, however, the successful author were to he entrusted with the execution of the building, the ordinary commission of four per cent. would net' him about $ 150,

000.

The new buildings are to be composed of two groups, one for the Department of Justice. including the Supreme Court. Exchequer Court and Railway Commission, and the other a five storey structure of 360,000 superficial feet. They will be situated on the east side of Major Hill Park, and will be of Gothic type, so as to harmonize with the existing buildings. The plans will also include the laying out of avenues and roads and the connecting of Parliament Hill with Major Hill Park by a footbridge of monumental design.

<article title=" TORONTO ARCHITECTS FORM PARTNERSHIP " author="">

TORONTO ARCHITECTS FORM PARTNERSHIP.

Mr. Charles G. Langley and Mr. W. Ford How-land, architects, announce that they have formed a partnership under the firm name of Langley & How-land, with offices in the Continental Life Building, corner Bay and Richmond streets Toronto.

