<doctype type="text">104	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CANADIAN PLUMBER " author="">

09 CANADIAN PLUMBER 

HEATING AND LIGHTING ENGINEER<article title=" HEATING AND LIGHTING ENGINEER " author="">

[NOTE. —Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers.]

<article title=" A PROPERLY EQUIPPED BATHROOM " author="">

A PROPERLY EQUIPPED BATHROOM.

With a view to educating the public generally, and the farming class in particular, regarding the best and most sanitary plumbing methods, the United States Department of Agriculture has issued a bulletin entitled "Modern Conveniences for the Farm Home," by E.T.Wilson, formerly Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering in the Iowa State College, from































































Domestic Hot Water Circulation System.



which we take the following, relative to the proper equipment of the bathroom:

There is a great difference of opinion among those who have made a special study of sanitary plumbing concerning many of the details of construction and design, but the vital things to be kept in mind when laying out the system are to use the best material, isolate all plumbing and concentrate as much as possible. By "best material" is not meant the most expensive, but the most durable. Secure simplicity in all needed fixtures. Avoid complications in waste pipes. Select sinks without grease traps, bathtubs without inaccessible overflows, wash basins free as possible from fouling places, and water closets without valves) connecting rods or machinery.

The drainage system must be so constructed as to

carry away completely, automatically and immediately everything that may be delivered into it. It should be constantly and generally vented, frequently and thoroughly flushed, and have each of its openings into the house securely guarded from the entrance of air from the interior of the drain or pipe into the room. All drains, soil pipe and waste pipe should be absolutely tight against the leakage of water or air.

The main line of the house drainage system begins at the sewer, flush or septic tank, as the case may be, passes through the house by such a course as may he indicated by a judicious compromise between directness and convenience, past the location of the highest fixture that is to discharge into it, and then out through the roof for free ventilation. If possible, have the fixtures which are located on different floors in a direct line one above the other to avoid any considerable horizontal run. If bathrooms or water closets are required in different parts of the house, let each have its own vertical line of soil pipe. All plumbing fixtures on bedroom floors should be confined to bathrooms, and under no circumstances should there be a wash basin or any other opening into any channel which is connected with the drainage system in a sleeping room or in a closet opening into a sleeping room. Each bathroom should have exterior location and at least one window for light and ventilation, but pipes should not be placed against outer walls unless adequately protected against frost. Never have plumbing out of sight; let each pipe be in full view, and each closet, bath or basin be unhidden by any sort of inclosing woodwork. There is quite as much danger from the dirt which is apt to gather around concealed pipes and beneath inclosed sinks, bowls or closets as there is from the admission of sewer gas. The simplest way to prevent the accumulation of dirt is to make it easier to be clean than to be dirty. Therefore keep the plumbing fixtures where there is plenty of light.

The bathroom should be a light, well ventilated room, with every facility for cleanliness. Floors and wainscoting of tile or composite material are most desirable, but painted walls are much less expensive and give excellent results. Tile is undoubtedly the most satisfactory material which can be used for the covering of the floors and walls where it can be afforded. Tile floor with covered base and walls finished with cement or hard plaster, painted with enamel paint, are much cheaper. When a tile floor cannot be had, linoleum is an excellent substitute, as it is practically impervious to water. It should be laid before the fixtures are set, in order that there may be no joints. Cement mixed with small chips of marble well rubbed down after setting makes an excellent floor, one that washes as clean as a porcelain plate and has no cracks to harbor dirt; the cost is only about twice that of a

