<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—No	234.			JUNE, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Competitions:— 1—For a Small Suburban House.—Design Submitted by "Architecture".

2.—For a Farmhouse.—Design Submitted by 'Byzantine





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Views of the New Post Office, Mexico.





CONTENTS

Editorial -	-	-	89-90

Some Special Features of Traders Bank Building, Toronto 91-92

Varieties of Damp Courses and their Treatment	-	93-94

Architecture at the Royal Academy		9596

Institute of Architects of Canada		97

Canada's Advisory Council of Fine Arts	-	98

Glass as a Material for Interior decoration		99

Montreal Notes	-		-			-	100

P. Q. A. A. Sketching Club		-			-		101

Architecture in America	-			-		-	101

Our Illustrations -	-		-	-		-	102

Hamilton Having Phenomenal Building year	-

A Properly Equipped Bathroom	-	- 104

The Chimney Flue	-	105

Heating and Ventilating a Modern	Hotel	-		105

Discovering Leaks in Water Mains	-			105

Concrete Blocks for Building Purposes		-		106

Danger in Decay o Concrete -	-		-	106

Wood for Water Pipes - -		-		ix

Architects' Invention for Railroad	Wrecks	 -	-	x

Master Painters and Decorators to meet	in	London		x

Canadian National Exhibition for 1907			-	x

Perfect Color Combinations - -		-		xiv

To Photograph Blue Prints	-	-	xv

<article title=" Capital to Educate Labour " author="">

No one can deny that at the Capital to Educate Labour present moment the difficulties

Labor.	that are constantly arising between employer and employee, not only in Toronto, but throughout the entire country, go to form one of the most vital questions of the day. At this time of year, when building activity should be at its strongest, these labor difficulties make themselves most apparent, and inconvenience, not only the persons directly interested, and the general public as well, but seriously impair the general prosperity of the country. Who are responsible for the troubles Ask the capitalist, and he invariably denounces trades unionism as a monster of insatiable appetite. relentless in demand and incapable of comprehending the difficulties of the employer. Trades unionism, on the other hand, recognizes in capital a hard task master, from whom nothing can be secured save through the severest form of pressure.

Neither thoroughly understand the other, and to this phase of the question at the present time much careful thought is being given by the National Association of Manufacturers in the United States. At its recent convention in New York, this Association appointed a committee of thirty-six to consider ways and means of raising $500,000 a year for three years, to be used in a campaign against the labor unions. This is not to be a "corruption fund," the trustees of the association assure the public. "The money will be devoted to a campaign of education solely," one of them declares. ''We think," he continues, "that we will be able to open a good many people's eyes to what the many unions really mean. Gompers and his friends have a fund of a million or so. It is time that there was some federated action on the part of employers. We mean to lead off in such action and in the right way."

Following this announcement, a variety of strongly

expressed opinions has been handed out by many American papers.

This is lust ''the wrong way'' to grapple with the problem, declares The Wall Street Journal (New York). "Co-operation, not war, should be the program. It were better to adopt the suggestion of Secretary Straus and invite the leaders of organized labor to meet with the manufacturers for joint consultation and action. Organized labor is here to stay, just as organized capital is. Both are proper within certain limitations. The abuse of organization is as bad on the part of labor as it is on the part of capita. Boycotts are as wrong as rebates, or any other method of unfair competition. The thing to do is for organized capital and organized labor to get together on a program of conciliation; and not to make war on each other."

A similar attitude is assumed by the Washington Times. It recalls the experiences of railroad managers two or three decades ago, when they attempted to combat unionism in a manner similar to this campaign of the Manufacturers' Association: "The unions were not destroyed then and will not be destroyed now. The railroad managers solved the problem of their relations with the unions by recognizing them, dealing with them as organizations, making them responsible, encouraging them to place their strongest, ablest, most skilful men in charge of their business. To-day there is no complaint by the railroads against labor organization. Strikes are almost unknown, the men are satisfied and the corporations feel a security that was unknown to them until they had recognized their employees as intelligent, well intentioned people, who enjoyed the same right to organize that the government has conferred upon corporations."

The New York Times scoffs at the idea of a campaign of education and asks: "How can the Manu

