<doctype type="text">46	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

by the by-laws of the association, except in cases provided for by this Act,

9. The council shall admit, as student associates, those desirous of entering the profession of architecture.

Candidates must give one month 's notice to the secretary, giving their full names.

They s hall pay such fees and submit to such examinations as shall be necessary in that behalf.

Graduates in arts, sciences and letters of any university in His Majesty 's Dominion shall not he required however, to pass any preliminary examinations;

Provided that any person who, before the passing of this Act, was entered as a student for a shorter term than five years, but not less than three years, with a principal or principals, approved by the council, shall, on serving time full time of his indenture and passing the examinations prescribed by the council, lie entitled to register under this Act.

Notice and evidence of existing studentship shall be given to the secretary within six months after the passing of this Act and shall lie accompanied by such fee as the council shall, from time to time, direct, and by proper certificate of such studentship.

Upon and after the passing of this Act, students shall serve such term as is required to be served by the provisions of this Act, under indenture to a registered architect, which indenture and any assignment thereof, with affidavit of execution thereto attached, shall he filed with the secretary upon payment of such fee as the council may by regulation direct.

The council may shorten the period of studentship to a term, however, of not less than three years in favor of graduates of any recognized college or school of architecture or technology.

The council shall admit after sufficient examination every graduate of a recognized school of architecture or technology after one year's study, under a principal approved by the council, provided time course of studies followed by such candidate shall have been not less than four years.

it). The council shall appoint an examiner or examiners for the purpose of ascertaining and reporting on the qualification of all persons w ho shall present themselves for admission to the study or practice of architecture, such examiners to he approved by the M mister of Education.

The council shall also prescribe the subjects for such examination, which shall take place in January and July on the days previously fixe I and advertised by the council.

11. The council shall fix a tariff for the services of members which, when approved of by the Lieutenant-Governor in-Council I and published in the Official Gazette, shall be accepted in all courts of law as evidence of the value of such services, except there is an agreement in writing.

12. The time and place of time annual meeting of time association alit of special meetings thereof, and for meetings of the council, shall be fixed by by-laws, also the mode of summoning and conducting the same.

In the absence of any rule or regulation as to the summoning of meetings of the association or of the council, it shall be lawful for the president, or in the event of his absence or (loath, for the secretary, to summon time same at such time and place as to such officer seems fit, by circular letter to be mailed to each member.

13. After the expiration of six months from the publication of time notice of the organization of the council of the said association, no person can take or make use of the name or title of architect, either singly or in connection with any other word, name, title or designation, giving it to lie under stood that line is an architect under this Act, unless he is registered under this Act as a member of time said association.

Any person who, after the time above mentioned, not being registered as a member of the said association, takes or makes use of any such name, title or designation as above mentioned, shall be liable upon summary conviction, to a flume not exceeding twenty five dollars for time first offence, and not exceeding one hundred dollars for every subsequent offense.

In any prosecution hereunder the burden (if proving that lie is registered under this Act shall rest upon time accused.

14. Time secretary shall, in every year, cause to be printed, published and kept for inspection at his Office free of charge, under the direction if time council a correct register of the names in alphabetical order according to the surnames with the respective residence of all persons appearing on time gen.

 r, and

oral register on the first day of January in every yen

such register shall be called the ' ' Architects Register,' and a copy if such register for time being purporting to 1)0  printed and published as aforesaid shall be evidence in all courts aunt before all justices of time peace, and others, that time persons therein specified are registered according to the provisions of this Act

Provided always that in ease of any person whose name does not appear in such copy under time hand of the secretary, time entry of the name of such person in this register shall he evidence t hat such person is registered under time provisions of this Act;

The secretary shall keep a similar register of student association

15. Members and student associates shall pay on such registration aim annual fee as shall lie required by the by-laws.

The names of those in default shall be removed from time respective registers by time secretary, after one month 's notice to time parties and shall not lie re-inserted except upon the

payment of all arrears amid such fine (if any) as may lie imposed by the by-laws of the association.

1 6. The council may direct that a name be removed from time register in the following cases (that is to say), at time request or with the written consent of time person whose name is to be removed or where the name has been incorrectly entered or where a person registered has, after time passing of this Act, been convicted, either in His Majesty 's dominions or elsewhere, of an offense which if committed in His Majesty s m dominions would be punishable by imprisonment for five years or immure, or where a person registered I is shown to have been guilty after his registration either in His Majesty 's dominions or elsewhere, of a any conduct or breach of time bylaws orders or regulations, of The Alberta Association of Architects, ' or of conduct infamous in a professional re 

When the council shall have removed the name of any per son from time register, the name of that person shall not he again entered upon the register, except by a resolution (If the council or by aim order of a court of competent jurisdiction.

The council may, by resolution direct time secretary to restore to time register any name removed therefrom either without fee or upon payment of such fee not exceeding the fees in arrears or unpaid and one additional renewal fee as time council may, from time to time fix; and I the secretary shall restore time name accordingly.

The name of any person removed from the register at the request of such or with his consent, shall, unless it might if not so removed have been removed by order of the council lie restored to time register, on his application amid on payment of such fees not exceeding such fees as shall lie in arrears, and one additional registration fee as time council, from time to time may fix.

Jim time event of removal em expulsion an appeal shall hie to the association which, at a general meeting may reverse time decision of the council.

17. Subject to time other provisions of this Act, all notices and documents required by or for the purpose of this Act to be sent, may lie sent by post, amid shall be deemed to have been received at time when time letter containing the same would be delivered in the ordinary course of the mail ; mind iii proving such sending it shall be sufficient to prove that the letter containing time notices mini documents was prepaid and

properly addressed amid registered and put in the post.

Such notices and documents may lie in writhing or in print, or partly in writing amid partly in print, and when sent to the council or other authorities, shall be deemed to 1)0 properly addressed if addressed to time said bodies or authorities, or to sonic officer of the council, or authority, not time principal place of business of the council or authority, amid when sent to a person registered under this Act, shall be deemed to line properly addressed, if addressed to him according to his address registered in time register of this association

18. All moneys arising from fees payable, on registration or the annual renewal fees, or from smile of copies of the register or otherwise shall line paid to the secretary of the council, and by him pail over to time treasurer to line applied in accordance with such regulations as may line made by the council, for defraying the expenses of registration, amid time other expenses of the execution of this Act, amid, subject thereto, towards the support of museums, libraries or lectureships, or for other

