<doctype type="text">128	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ARCHITECT'S RIGHT TO COMPENSATION FOR DRAWING PLANS " author="Brady, John Edson">

ARCHITECT'S RIGHT TO COMPENSATION FOR DRAWING PLANS.

By JOHN EDsON BRADY, of the New York Bar.

(In Architects and Builders' Magazine.)



The right of an architect to recover compensation for plans which he has drawn is always based upon contract. If any of the essential elements of a contract are missing from the transaction, upon which the architect's claim rests, then he is not legally entitled to payment, no matter how much time and labor he may have expended, or how great expense he may have incurred in the work.

An illustration is found in the case of Allan vs. Bowman, 7 Mo. App. 29. There an architect, having learned that a certain person was about to build a house, solicited from him the superintendence of the work. The architect called upon and interviewed the owner several times and, on one occasion, the latter went to see the architect in his office, but no definite agreement was entered into. The architect, however, made sketches of a ground plan and a front elevation, which he exhibited to the owner at the latter's residence, where a number of suggestions for improvements were offered by the owner's wife and made note of by the architect. The owner then decided to drop the matter, but told the architect that he would appoint him superintendent of the work if he later determined to build. The owner thereafter commenced to build, but engaged a different superintendent and the architect rendered his bill for the plans which he had drawn, on the non-payment of which he brought suit. There was, of course, no right of recovery for the reason that there was no evidence of a promise to pay, either expressed or implied2 and therefore, no contract. The plaintiff was in the position of having made an offer which had never been accepted. A person cannot officiously do work in the expectation of an engagement and then, when the expectation fails, sue for the price of the work done. The burden is upon the plaintiff in every case to show that he did his work under a promise, expressed or implied, by the other party to pay for the work.

The case of Tilley vs. County of Cook, 103 U. S., 154, presents an instance of an architect, disappointed in the collection of his fees upon somewhat similar grounds. Cook County, Ill., and the city of Chicago, having decided to erect certain public buildings, invited by newspaper advertisement the submission of plans in competition and jointly offered premiums for the three best plans entered. The plaintiff was awarded the third prize of $1,000 and later the County Commissioners passed a resolution adopting his plan as the one after which to build the Court House and City Hall, The plaintiff then started an action to recover 5 per cent, of the estimated cost of the buildings as compensation. But here again recovery was denied because there was no contract. By the payment to the plaintiff of the amount of the prize won by him the defendants discharged every obligation which they owed him arising out of the preparation f the plans for the proposed buildings. If the plain-tiff had any right whatever to compensation, it was necessarily based upon the resolution of the County Commissioners adopting his plans. But the resolution was not passed at the instance or suggestion of the plaintiff. It was not in itself a contract, but a mere

voluntary expression of intention, which might have been reconsidered and rescinded the following day. It was no more a contract than if a private person should announce his intention of erecting a house in accordance with a design which he had seen in an architect's office, and should change his mind before beginning the execution of his purpose without even calling for or using the plans. The plaintiff in the Cook County case offered to prove a custom of architects, that, when prizes are offered for the plans of a building, the successful competitor remains the owner of his designs and is entitled to compensation in addition to the prize money, if the plan is adopted. The court answered this by saying that, if it were the custom and usage among Chicago architects, who enter into a competition for prizes offered for plans. to expect compensation based upon a percentage of the estimated cost as well as the prize, irrespective of whether the plans are used or the building erected, the custom is unreasonable and absurd, and, therefore, not binding in law.

Ordinarily it is necessary that there be a delivery or tender of the plans contracted for in order to justify a judgment for the services rendered in the preparation of the plans. The question of what constitutes a sufficient delivery or tender often arises. In Kutts vs. Pelby, 37 Mass. 65, the plaintiff, at the request of the defendant, drew for him a sketch of and Egyptian front for a theatre, which the defendant took and retained for a period of a week. The defendant expressed himself as pleased with the sketch and told the plaintiff to go ahead with the plans for the theatre. When the plans were completed the defendant's master builder called for them and kept them for a week, for the purpose of making an estimate of the cost of construction. The plans were then turned over to the defendant, who later decided not to use them in building. The plaintiff was allowed to recover, it being held that there had been a sufficient delivery; it was also held that the defendant's determination not to use the plans, after they had been delivered, did not preclude a recovery.

It is not, however, always necessary that plans actually be delivered in order that the architect who drew them may be entitled to recover for his services. Thus, where it was agreed between the parties that the architect would notify the owner, for whom he had contracted to prepare plans, when the plans were ready and that the later would then call and examine them, the architect was given a verdict for the amount of his compensation under the contract upon showing that he had completed the plans and had sent word to the owner, who had failed to call for the purpose of inspecting them. Wandelt vs. Cohen, 36 N. Y. Supp. 811.

Where an architect is employed to furnish plans and specifications for a building with an estimate of the probable cost of the work, he is not entitled to pay for his services unless the building can be erected at a cost reasonably approximating that state in the estimate. In Feltham vs. Sharp, 25 S. E. 619, an architect brought an action to recover 3 1-2 per cent. of $4,300, the estimated cost of a building for which he had drawn plans. Upon the testimony of the defendant that he had submitted plans furnished to two firms of contractors and that the lower of the two bids made thereon was $7,800 it was held that the architect was not entitled to the compensation claimed.

