<doctype type="text;ad ">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" LEGAL " author="">

LEGAL.



Dominion Paving & Construction Co. v. City of Toronto. —Judgment by Chief Justice Falconbridge in the Divisional Court on appeal by defendants MacKeican, from judgment of Meredith, C. J., dated 26th October, 1906. The plaintiffs did certain work on the St. Lawrence Market building, and claimed for extras the sum of $440.58. The defendants set up that, even if the work was clone on the order of the architects, they were not bound by their orders. At the trial the plaintiffs recovered $387.48. The two architects were brought before the court and examined. Held, that the evidence of the architects made abundantly clear what it is said was admitted on the trial. namely, that the work sued for was not within the plans and specifications, not caused by any alteration in the same, but was a mere addition in no wise affecting or relating to anything contained in the contract of plaintiffs or the plans and specifications thereof. Meagre as was the evidence at the trial, even without the evidence given before the court, the judgment of the trial Judge should be sustained. If there is any real dispute as to the proper value, defendants may, at their own expense, take a reference to determine the value, in which case further directions and costs will be reserved. If not, the appeal will be dismissed with costs.



<article title=" PERSONAL " author="">

PERSONAL.



Mr. J. G. Proctor, of Tacoma, Wash., was a recent visitor to his home at Ingersoll, Ont. Mr. Proctor has attained much prominence in the West, and is now Chief Architect for the State of Washington.

Mr. Melville P. White, who served his studentship in the office of Messrs. Langley & Burke, Architects, has recently returned to Toronto from Chicago, having accepted the management of the Architectural Iron Department of the Canada Foundry Company.

Mr. W. B. Van Egmond who has had the management of W. W. La Chance's architectural office in Regina for the past year, has severed his connection with that office and has entered into

partnership with Mr. E. M. Storey who has been in practise there for some time. Business in future will be conducted under the firm name of E. M. Storey and Van Egmond. This firm have already a large amount of work on the boards for next season among which is the new Albert school at Regina for which tenders will shortly be called.



For the first time in many years the five Taylor brothers, all of whom are well known n the oullding trade throughout Canada. met in Toronto and celebrated their reunion by a dinner at the King Edward Hotel. The five brothers are: Joseph W. Taylor, heating engineer, Johannesburg, South Africa W. W. Taylor, with Pierce, Butler & Pierce, of Syracuse, N.Y. John M. Taylor and Adam Taylor, president and secretary respectively of the Taylor, Forbes Company, of Guelph, and James F. Taylor, Toronto, a director of the Taylor, Forbes Company,



Sir Aston Webb, R. A., former president of the Royal Institute of British Architects and architect for many prominent buildings in England, arrived in New York on December 30th, 1906. He comes to America at the invitation of the American Institute of Architects, who celebrated their fiftieth anniversary at Washington, on January 7th, 8th and 9th. The occasion was marked by the presentation to Sir Aston Webb of the "President's" medal, the first of a series to be awarded, one every year, for distinguished services in the profession. Mr. H. V. Manchester, of London, a well known English architect, also attended the Washington convention as the second English delegate.





A company recently incorporated by the Vancouver Government is the Silicia Brick & Lime Company, Limited, of Victoria, B.C. The authorized capital of the concern is fixed at $150,000, and among the promoters are some of British Columbia's most prominent men. The machinery for the plant has already been ordered, and it is expected that the works will be in operation next month. The capacity of the plant will be 20,000 bricks per day of 10 hours.

