<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	'73



When the question as to the place of meeting of the next congress was up for discussion, Mr. Peters, of Winnipeg, gave a very pressing invitation on behalf of the Winnipeg architects to hold the congress in that city; but it was felt that, in view of the Parliamentary business which might have to be taken up, it would be best that Ottawa should be chosen.

UNIFORM BUILDING LAWS.

<article title=" UNIFORM BUILDING LAWS " author="Peters, S. Frank">

In connection with the reading of a paper on "Uniform Building Laws," by Mr. F. W. Fitzpatrick, of





























































S. FRANK PETERS,

3rd vice-president Institute of Architects of Canada.





Washington, D.C., a motion was read by Mr. Chausse as follows: "That in view of the wide range of architectural activity, involving the erection of buildings in widely separated centres, in view of the great losses involved by conflagration of poorly constructed buildings, and in view of the danger of serious accidents, the Institute of Architects of Canada do hereby urge upon the various municipalities of the Dominion the desirability of the enactment of uniform building bylaws, which could be graded to suit the conditions and requirements of rural communities, villages, towns, and cities.''

Mr. Watts suggested that it might be advisable to go further and offer to aid cities and towns by draughting regulations for the construction of good buildings. The suggestion was added to the motion, which was adopted.

Mr. Fitzpatrick's paper was in part as follows:

"We have reached a point where the community has to legislate and, do it strenuously, for it must be recognized that little can be expected of the individual, even where his own interests are at stake. As far as building is concerned the average individual will only build as well as lie is compelled to. The essential purposes of building restrictions should aim at the preservation of property and the protection of the interests of the many against the aggression or even the private rights of the individual.

"To prevent destruction a building must perforce be indestructible; to avoid burning it must be incombustible, and to escape damage by fire it must be fireproof. It is not asking too much that our building laws be uniform, even at the risk of being thought visionary; and, as one expecting the millenium I would insist that those laws prohibit everything but incombustible and fireproof construction. Mark my words, it is only a question of time when such regulation will be enforced, and the sooner we have it the less danger will there be of other such horrors as San Francisco and Baltimore.

"We cannot leave that process of transformation to the individual, and the community may only act through wise laws and their rigid enforcement. Why should those laws be more exactingly or more strictly enforced in one community of a country than in another. "Unjust discrimination" and uniformity is the only thing that can efface that stigma.

''But the state can coax its people into this right way of building as well as it has the power to force them into it. Why should not our taxes be upon a sliding

























































ALCIDE CHAUSSE,

Secretary Institute of Architects of Canada.





scale? Why should a man who voluntarily builds well and pays the increased cost of such construction be taxed upon a virtually self-imposed tax, a species of compound interest, as a penalty for having so wellbuilt Would it not be infinitely more equitable to have a regular ground tax to begin with and then a sliding scale of tax upon improvements, buildings, the minimum rate upon those of the fire-class fireproof structures that cost the community the lowest amount, the very minimum of expenditure for protection, fire

