<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" HOW GLASS DECAYS " author="">

HOW GLASS DECAYS.

Glass is not popularly regarded as subject to decay, but that is because the alterations in it take place very slowly. Old glass, such as that in windows that have stood for centuries, may show marked signs of disintegration. It has been shown by Noel Heaton, an English authority, in a paper on the decay of medieval stained glass, read before the Society of Arts, that the manner of this disintegration may reveal the composition of the glass and the method by which it was made. An abstract of Mr. Heaton 's address in "Nature" says:

"There are reasons for thinking that the making of window glass was not handed down from the Romans, but was rediscovered in the middle ages, and the author thinks it most probable (although evidence is too scanty to justify this as a statement of fact) that the glass of the earliest stained glass windows, that is, those of the ninth and tenth centuries, was made in the same way as the cast window glass most generally employed by the Romans, this being the method that would most naturally suggest itself in the first place.





ART CLASS WORKS

ESTABLISHED 1876.

Memorial Church Windows.

Geometrical and Quarrie Windows,

Art Glass for Residences, etc.

Send for designs and prices to



H. HORWOOD &, SONS

	400and 402 Bank Street,	-	OTTAWA.

Ogdensburg, N. Y

"The composition of the glass described by Theo philus was quite different from that of the Romans, being produced, according to the treatise referred to, by heating a mixture of sand and the ashes of bench wood. It is probable, however, that the glass varied very considerably in composition at different times and in different places, owing to the impurity of the sand used and the varying nature of the wood ashes, which would in all probability be obtained by burning whatever species of timber came nearest to hand."

Mediaeval glass, the author tells us. decays characteristically, commonly becoming covered with pits, like worm-holes in an old oak cabinet. The process seems to reproduce on a small scale the action of time and weather on geological formations, such as chalk and sandstone—a combination of corrosion and internal change. To quote again:

"Corrosion of the surface of glass is produced by the long-continued action of moisture, which gradually extracts the soluble silicates, leaving the insoluble silica in a thin film. the glass thereby becoming iridescent. Owing to the large proportion of lime it contains, however, medieval glass does not become

"Thomas System of Reinforced Concrete and Tile Construction"

Patented August 15, 1905

	Thomas	system



DESIGNS OR	REINFORCED CONCRETE INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ESTIMATES AND CONSULTATION



WINDSOR BOILER WORKS

C.	E., WINDSOR, ONT.

A. THOMAS,

