<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	61



exclusive of specifications and supervision of the work. Whether this duty is in all cases collected is at present uncertain, but steps are being taken by the Association to ascertain the facts of the case. In their view a more practicable means would undoubtedly be for the customs officer to use the completed building as a basis for making his collections, and not depend solely upon the possible chance of getting the architect's plans, which, it is quite conceivable, lie may never see at all.

The protest made by the Ontario Association of Architects is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. The era of steel building construction is but in its infancy as yet, not only for Toronto, but for the rapidly growing cities all through our country, and now is the time for the Canadian architect to acquire familiarity with that class of work of which the importation of American architects threatens to deprive him. The Canadian architect needs 110 " associate. " He has already proved himself worthy of responsibility, and simply asks that for the welfare of his profession and for the future of Canadian art he be given his dues.

<article title=" ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY OF ARTS " author="">

ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY OF ARTS.

At the twenty-eighth annual exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts, which was opened on the 1st of April, the architectural drawings occupy their usual snug little humble corner in the Tempest Bequest Room, which it does not quite succeed in filling to its entire capacity. Small as the exhibition is— there are not more than fifty drawings in all they exhibit a wonderful variety of ideas as to how architectural work should be presented before the public on such an occasion. There are photographs. elevational drawings, pen and ink work. and sketches in water colors and oils. The subjects treated show a wide diversity. Mr. Henry Spratt of Toronto, exhibits a set of photographs, one of which, No. 346, exhibits a residence, picturesque, dignified and refined to a degree unattained by any of its competitors. Of elevational drawings, Mr. A. F. Dunlop, R. C. A., exhibits two, apparently the handiwork of Mr. J. A. Aird. Both in point of draughtsmanship and design they set a good standard of work. They represent the Commercial and Technical School, Sherbrooke street, and the new Fire Station on Berthelet street. Some of these exhibitors, whose work shows only in very second rate color perspective, would do well to limit their ambitions, at least for exhibition purposes, to this dignified style of representation. Of works rendered in color, the most pleasing are those by Messrs. Sake & Archibald, though there is generally a slight weakness in the representation of the texture of the materials. This is not 50 noticeable in the residence for Mr. James Reid Wilson, Lacolle, but ill the residence for Mr. Shirley Ogilvie, MacGregor street, the effect is, on the whole, most charming. Fairmon Methodist Church, by the same architects, has been very daintily rendered in brown ink by Mr. Shennan. Mr. Kenneth Rca shows the new office building of the Montreal Light, H eat & Power Company, rendered in a simple, strong and agreeable way. Time same designer has a sketch of the Chapel at West Point, which is one of the most pleasing in the exhibition. Mr. William Maxwell has a string of

eight water colors. By long odds tile most satisfactory of these are two views of a residence for Mr. David Walker, Montreal. The coloring aims at, or at least succeeds in producing, the effect of a sparkling decorative panel rather tilan any realistic representation of the subject. Time house itself has a quaintly unique character, with its broad '' Canadien'' gables, forming cheeks to tile building, and high pitched half dormers, all ill stone, with an unmistakable French note throughout. The interior of the Church of the Messiah gives a pleasant sensation of spaciousness and warmth. Amidst so many conceptions, the design for the internal treatment of  Christchurch Cathedral, by Prof. Nobbs is, by its moderation and refinement, a pleasing exception. Mr. Rickson Outhett's two garden sketches should also be mentioned as particularly agreeable in color and rendering. Mr. J. W. R. Gardiner's residence for J. B. Thomson. with pink and rather textureless brick and smooth slates, does not do justice to its architectural design. The summer cottage for Dr. Stirling, Lake St. Louis, is, however, a much more successful representation. Messrs. Finley & Spence's design for a church, No. 313. is delicately put in in pencil and wash, hut an excess of rather extravagant lettering spoils the picture. The Armoury of the Prince of Wales Fusiliers, designed by Messrs. MacVicar & Heriot, is a good building of the Scottish type, but the huge flags shown on the drawing belittle the scale. The other drawings by Mr. MacVicar show careful and tasty work. bearing a strong resemblance to the style of Mr. A. T. Taylor, two of whose sketches appear in this exhibition. Messrs. Hutchison & Wood are represented 1 by a huge perspective of the new building for the Canadian Express Company, McGill street. A drawing of York Minster, by Mr. James Mitchell, shows careful study of a worthy subject. A decorative panel by Gustav Hahn shows some

pleasing coloring, In the general exhibition of paintings there is a view of the Champlain Market, Quebec, which also shows architectural merit.



<article title=" EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF ARCHITECTS.

The Eighth International Congress (if Architects will be held in Vienna, Austria, May 18th to 24th, 1 1908. his Majesty, Emperor Francis-Joseph, of Austria, has consented to act as patron of the Congress. while the following gentlemen have consented to act as honorary presidents :—H. R. H. Prince of Liechtenstein, H. R. H. Prince of Saxe-Cobourg amid Gotha. H. R. H. Prince Schwartzenberg, R. H. H. Prince Windisch-Graetz, of Montenuovo; Cardinal Gruscha, the president of the Council of Ministers; the Ministers of Finance, of the Interior, of Cults and of Justice, of Commerce, of Railways; H. H. the Bishop Godfried Marsehall, the Bourgomaster of Vienna, lime Presidents of the Chamber of Lords and of Deputies.

The programme will consist of the discussion of important	architectural	questions. The	social functions

will include an inaugural seance in the Grand Hall of the Hofburg; a ''rout,'' offered by tile Society of Fine Arts of Vienna; a promenade on River Danube, with an ascension on the Hahlenberg, and a ''soiree

organized by the Austrian Society of Architects and

