<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—NO	230.					FEBRUARY, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Students' Competition.——Design submitted by "Pthah."





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

New Club House for the National Club, Bay Street, Toronto.—Messrs. Sproatt & Rolph, Architects. Mr. S. G. Curry, Consulting Architect.





CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	- -	- -	17

C. A. & B. Competition for a Farm	House			-		-18

Our Illustrations — -	-						19

Book Review - - -		-		-		-	19

The Selection of an Architect	-		-		-		19

A Scientific Wooden Skating Rink		-		-		-	20

P. Q. A. A. Sketching Club	-		-		-		21

The Treatment of Concrete Surfaces		-		-		-	22

British Investigate Concrete	-		-		-		23

Concrete Construction in England		-		-		-	23

Indoor Illuminants - -	-				-		27

Flanged Joint Works - -		-		-		- -

Some Remarks on Tiles -	-		-		-		28

	Production of Structural Materials	-	- -	28

	Design for Moderate Cost House	-	- -	29

	Heat a Cottage	-	-	-	- -	29

	Questions and Answers	-	-	- -	30

	Important Legislation			-	- -	31

	National Association of Builders' Exchanges	-	31

	New Patent Stair		-		-		-	-	-	32

	Legal - -	-		-		-	 -	 -		vi

	Preserving Brick Arches with Paint	- -	-	ix

	Fastening Iron Hooks and Clamps in Stone	-	x

	Alberta Association of Architects	- -	-	xi

	Comparison of Hair and Fibre for Mortar	-	xiv

	Painting Cement	-	-	-	-	-	XV



<article title=" Care of Architectural Drawings " author="">

Fifteen years or more ago the Care of Architectural Drawings late Mr. Richard C. Windeyer,

Drawings.

a Toronto architect, prepared

drawings for a new Anglican Cathedral, to be known as St. Albans. The funds necessary to erect the building not being then available, the choir only was built. Further work on the structure was suspended until recently, when the Chapter decided to proceed with the undertaking. During the period of inactivity Mr. Windeyer died, and a search for the drawings revealed the fact that many of them had been destroyed by his family in the belief that they were of no further value. The circumstance shows the necessity for greater carefulness for the preservation of drawings of important buildings. The Chapter of St. Albans have now placed the work of completing the cathedral in the hands of Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett, of Toronto.



<article title=" Canadian Building Materials " author="">

Canadian Building Materials. An interesting visit was paid by Members of the Ontario Association of Architects during the recent convention at Ottawa to the Geological Museum in that city. Here are to be found classified specimens in large variety of Canadian building stones and marbles. The architects expressed regret that information was not available showing the location of quarries, the extent of the deposits and development, and the facilities at the command of the owners to meet the commercial demand for their product. Most Canadian architects would prefer, all other things being equal, to use native material, but in many instances are debarred from doing so by lack of knowledge of the characteristics of the material and the source and extent of the supply. It would seem to be the duty of the Government to amplify the information on the subject, as it is certainly to the interest of the quarry-owners to advertise their product and let it be known

to what extent they are in a position to fill orders. Because this information has not been forthcoming, a very large amount of United States stone and marble is every year going into the construction of Canadian buildings.

<article title=" The Outlook " author="">

Indications point to another

The Outlook.	busy season for Canadian architects and builders. A large

quantity of work of an important character is already on the drawing boards, which, with what is in prospect, amounts to almost a guarantee that 1907 will compare favorably with 1905-6. What effect the gradual tightening of the money market and steadily advancing prices of lumber and other lines of building materials, as well as labor, may have cannot be foreseen. The blocking of railway traffic in the west has prevented the turning into money of a large quantity of grain, and caused at least a temporary stringency, which, it is hoped, may pass away before the money for new building projects is required.

<article title=" East vs. West " author="">

What is the meaning of the fact

East vs. West	that all but one of the prizes in our recent competitions for designs for a Moderate Cost Suburban House and a Farm House, have been won by Montreal Students? A few years ago the majority of prizes in such competitions went to students in the West. Is the improvement in the work of the students in the east attributable to the new life which has been infused into the Architectural Department of McGill University, or should the credit go to the enthusiasm awakened among the students by the Montreal Sketch Club? Perhaps both have had their influence, and conversely, to the lack of such facilities as those now afforded students in the east may possibly be traced the standing of the western com

