<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	129

<article title=" TECHNICAL EDUCATION " author="">

TECHNICAL EDUCATION.

More and more the necessity for the establishment of State Technical Schools is making itself manifest, not simply because of the better mechanics that are the product of these institutions, but because of their effect in elevating the moral tone of the great bulk of the population of our growing cities. The combination of manual with mental training in Canadian High Schools and Collegiate Institutes has been productive of good results thus far, and a healthy channel has been afforded for the exhaustion of boyish exuberance in the handling of tools. If this latter purpose alone were served, a sufficient raison deter for the manual training department of the secondary schools would have been advanced, but more than that can assuredly be said of the so-called Technical or Trade Schools. They have opened new avenues of usefulness and culture to many a lad, and have enabled the graduates to choose their occupations more wisely, either in the direction of industrial arts or in other fields.

 The object of manual training is mastery—mastery of the external world, mastery of tools, mastery of materials, mastery of processes. Only recently have the mechanical arts been studied, analyzed and Arranged in logical order for the purpose of being taught. It was formerly assumed without argument that the only way to learn to use tools and to master material and mechanical processes was to go into a shop as an apprentice, or to associate one's self with workmen engaged in the execution of ordinary commercial work. The idea of putting the mechanical arts into a school and teaching them step by step was a new thought, just as it was a new thought when law, medical, naval and military schools took the place of the court room, the doctor's office. the ship 's deck and the military camp. The world has made progress in the past fifty years, and in no direction more markedly than in this one item of teaching the mechanical arts.

It must be borne in mind by critics of the Technical School that a "preparation for complete living" is much more the ultimate end of any education whether mental or manual, than the mere thought of fitting a child for an occupation by which he may with the greater satisfaction earn his daily bread. Wherever manual training has been adopted it has been invariably noticed that boys will more willingly remain in school through the higher grades.

Psychologists tell us that manual training is essential to the full development of the brain, and therefore is indispensable to intellectual culture. President Eliot of Harvard University says: "Manual training not only trains the eye and hand, but develops the habit of accuracy and thoroughness in any kind of work. It develops the mental faculties of some boys better than books do." Professor James, of the same University, made the statement that "The most colossal improvement which recent years have seen in secondary education lies in the introduction of manual training," while Dr. Stanley Hall is credited with the statement that "No kind of education so demonstrably develops the brain as hand training."

It has been well said that the finest fruit of education is character, and have we not here a probable solution for the problem that is to-day paramount in the industrial world, the differences between labor and capital? As noted last month in our editorial columns, on the other side of the line an educational campaign is to be commenced with a view to enlightening the laboring masses. It is questionable whether the methods to be adopted will fulfill their mission. It might be pointed out, however, that if it is the intention of the Manufacturers' Association to utilize a portion of their fund of $1,500,000 for the endowment of Technical Schools, the hoped for results may be Looked for, In the proper education of the laborer

—education being interpreted in its fullest sense— must lie the ultimate solution of the labor problem. Technical education gives a more complete development, versatility and adaptability to circumstances. No technically trained workman can be a slave to a method, or depend upon the demand for a particular article or kind of labor. It is only the uneducated, unintelligent mechanic who suffers from the invention of a new tool. The thoroughly trained mechanic enjoys the extraordinary advantage of being able, like the well-taught mathematician, to apply his skill to every problem; with every new tool and new process he rises to new usefulness and worth.

The leaders of mobs are not illiterate, but they are narrow, the victims of a one-sided education, and their followers are the victims of no education. Give them a liberal training, and you emancipate them alike from the tyranny of unworthy leaders and the slavery of a vocation. The sense of hardship and wrong will never come and riots will cease when workingmen shall have such intellectual, mechanical, and moral culture that new tools, new processes, and new machines will only furnish opportunities for more culture, and add new dignity and respect to their calling.

At a recent convention of the Minnesota State Association of Builders' Exchanges, the subject of State schools for the teaching of the mechanical arts was discussed. It was made apparent by various speakers that few of their workingmen had ever had the advantages of the training such institutions would afford.

W. A. Stromme, secretary of the Builders' and Traders' Exchange of Faribault, in the course of the discussion, declared that the contractors and builders of the northwest were, seriously handicapped in their work because of the fact that so many of their workmen did not understand their trade sufficiently to allow of their being left to work by themselves unless under the constant supervision of a boss.

He further pointed out that very few of the ordinary carpenters, masons and steel workers are familiar with blue prints, and in this respect the skilled workers in building trades in America are far behind the members of their respective trades in most of the countries of Europe, and for that reason foreign carpenters, blacksmiths and masons are able to earn more money here than can those who have worked in America all their lives, and have just as great natural ability as their fellow-workers from across the sea.

''Schools for the teaching of the mechanical arts," said Mr. Stromme, "have for years past been established and in running order in nearly all of the European countries, and in these schools all of the apprentices are given their first instructions. A young man who enters these schools will not secure a certificate as being a chartered workman in his trade till he can prove his ability before the State officials of the school.

"When he has finished his course he is ready to draw full pay and to do the work of an all around good man in his trade. He not only understands the blue prints and can follow them out, but he knows somewhat of the science of building, the tensile strength of material, and is an unbiased judge of construction methods. Such schools as that should be maintained by every State in the Union if the State cares for the equal benefit of all of its citizens.

A possible remedy is here hinted at for the injustice to which employers are subjected in being compelled by trade unions to pay a uniform wage to mechanics of all degrees of competency. Manifestly. a graduate of a Technical School should and would be eligible for a larger remuneration than his fellow—mechanic, who could boast of no training beyond a limited experience under a working employer. Here, undoubtedly, should be found a basis for a re-adjustment of the scale of wages at present indiscriminately demanded from employers by the unclassified members of our trades unions.

