CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

so as to equalize it, but it was found that it has a tendency to squeeze outward and flush the joints, thus more than counter-balancing any good it might do. The term "regular-coursed" is given to ashlar when the courses throughout the face of the building are all of the same depth. When the courses vary in depth, it is termed "irregular-coursed'' ashlar. If the courses are not continuous, but broken it is ''random" ashlar, but the last class of work is uncommon. The bond adopted follows the general idea of Flemish, but as all stones are not of an uniform size, considerable freedom is allowed in bonding, and except in the best class of work, no attempt is made to keep the perpends. The courses should range with the quoin stones and dressings. Joints can be made less than one-eighth inch thick. Plasterer's putty is frequently used to make the outer part of the joint; it extends inward about two inches.

Previous to being set, each stone is laid dry in its place to ascertain that it fits properly. The amount of work that we find upon the face of ashlar varies considerably, from the simplest form to the most complex. Rebated joints and V joints are used to emphasize the joints, while at the same time they prevent them from flushing. This class of ashlar work is termed ''rusticated.'' A wall built of solid ashlar is generally expensive, and so the term has come almost to imply a facing of ashlar with a backing of rubble or brickwork. The ashlar is frequently only four inches, and rarely more than six inches thick, with bond stones projecting into the backing. The ashlar should average about eight inches on the bed, and should bond transversely with the back. Headers. having a length of at least two-thirds of the thickness 6f the wall, should be laid, one to every superficial yard of face. The backing. if rubble, should be built in courses each leveled up to coincide with the ashlar courses. If of brick, the ashlar courses must be of suitable depth to allow of the same treatment. The greater number and greater thickness of the joints in the rubble or brickwork lead to more compression in the backing than in the facing, and this tends to cause the wall to bulge outward. This effect may be to a large extent avoided by building in cement or a quicksetting mortar. Self-faced, natural-faced, rock-faced, are terms all implying the same meaning, and indicate that the face of the stone is left rough as from the quarry, though it may have been scabbed with the hammer to remove irregular projections. A wall built of natural-faced stone is sometimes termed ''rustic-faced," but it must not be confounded with the rusticated joints previously mentioned. There are several other classes of work, such as "rubbed work

"vermiculated work,'' ''sunk work," ''circular work'' and moulded work."





METAL COVERINGS CATALOGUED.

Another comprehensive and beautifully illustrated catalogue has just been issued by the Metal Shingle & Siding Company, Limited, Preston. No better method of forming an estimate of the constantly increasing popularity of metal as an exterior and interior finish can be adopted than to glance over the many pages of artistic designs presented in this catalogue. The company are to be congratulation upon the excellence of this publication.

BRIDGE BUILDING BY ELECTRIC POWER.

In the construction of the huge bridge across the St. Lawrence river at Quebec the entire work of erecting is being done by electric power. The bridge is being built for the Quebec Bridge Company, and the Phoenix Bridge Company, of Phoenixville, Pa., is doing the construction work. The bridge is of the cantilever type and will have a span of 1,800 feet in the clear. The work of erecting is being conducted from the shore ends without the use of any false work, one side being first extended 900 feet out from its tower, where it will remain perhaps more than a year seemingly unsupported until the other side is brought out to meet it.

Two steel travelers of large dimensions are doing the work of placing the bridge members in place. Each traveler is equipped with two Lidgerwood electric hoists of the most powerful type ever made. One traveler rests upon the bridge deck and extends over the end of the cantilever, being moved forward as fast as the parts it handles are put in place.

The other traveler is the more interesting. It is suspended between the bridge deck, with its upright













<doctype type="text">

















<article title=" ELECTRIC LIDGERWOOD hoists, USED IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BRIDGE OF THE QUEBEC BRIDGE & RAILWAY COMPANY across THE ST. LAWRENCE RIVER, NEAR QUEBEC.

" author="">



ELECTRIC LIDGERWOOD hoists, USED IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BRIDGE OF THE QUEBEC BRIDGE & RAILWAY COMPANY across THE ST. LAWRENCE RIVER, NEAR QUEBEC.





parts rising more than 300 feet high above the ground so as to pass on either side and above the tops of the towers of the bridge, each of which is 300 feet high.

The accompanying illustration shows the deck of this traveler and the two electric hoists with which it is equipped. Each of these hoists has drums 40 inches in diameter and 50 inches on the face and is capable of lifting 20,000 pounds on a single line. They have handled single bridge parts weighing 110 tons. The hoists are equipped with direct current motors of 150 horse-power each and are operated with 220 volts.

Besides the four big hoists for the travelers there are a dozen or more smaller electric hoists used in connection with the work.



It is reported that a new sand-lime brick-making plant will shortly be established in Vancouver, B.C. Mr. R. B. Master, of Toronto, has investigated the sand in the neighborhood and has pronounced it particularly suitable for making bricks. It is thought that the establishment of such a plant will do much to relieve the present shortage of building material in the west.

