<doctype type="text">62	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Engineers ; an excursion to the Semmerin a reception at the City H all of Vienna, and a " fete'' at the Imperial Court.

The Permanent Committee will meet in Paris in July, 1907, to arrange the details of the organization.

The Canadian members of the Permanent Committee are Mr. Aleide hausse, of Montreal member of the Council of the Committee, and Messrs. W. E. Doran and J. S. Archibald, of Montreal.



<article title=" CONVENTION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

CONVENTION OF ARCHITECTS.

The Architectural League of America will hold their next annual convention in Washington, D. C

 ,



April 22nd, 23rd and 24th, under the auspices of the Washington Architectural Club. The clubs likely to send representatives are those of Cleveland, Toronto, Pittsburg, Chicago, Detroit, St. Louis, San Francisco, Boston and Portland, Or. The following will also be represented :—T-Square Club, of Philadelphia ; Twin City Architectural Club. Architects' Club of Urbana, Ill. ; National Society of Mural Painters, Sculpture Society, George Washington Architectural Club, of Washington, D.C.

Papers by eminent architects will be read at the convention, and discussions will be held on questions

pertaining to individual	membership in the	League,

travelling scholarships	and fellowships in	Architectural Schools and matriculation preparation	for entrance thereto.



<article title=" ARCHITECTS' COMPETITION " author="">

ARCHITECTS' COMPETITION.

A competition of interest to American architects has been announced in connection with the proposed new building for the International Bureau of the American Republics, to be erected shortly in the city of Washington. A special invitation will he extended to tea firms of prominent architects to submit plans,

of $1,000 to vover

a guarantee	expenses accompanying 

each invitation. All other architects. not so invited, are also free to compete, with an equal chance of their plans being accepted, but they are allowed no guarantee. To the plan deemed of most merit, submitted by one of this latter class, $3,000 will be paid; to the second, $2,000, and to the third, $1,000. The successful architect will be awarded the commission for carrying out the work to full completion on the basis of the schedule of charges adopted by the American Institute of Architects. The cost of the building must not exceed $600,000. 



<article title=" INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS OF CANADA " author="">

INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS OF CANADA.

In view of the rapid increase and enlargement of building operations in the Dominion of Canada, and the consequent development of architectural interests, it is thought by some of the leading practitioners that the time has arrived for the organization of a society embracing the whole Dominion. It is also felt that such a society has become a necessity, in order to promote and conserve the honor and dignity of the profession, and also that it will help to unify the various local organizations and be of service to practitioners in localities having no local organizations. A provisional committee has been formed with a view to securing membership and for the preparation of an Act of Incorporation and By-laws. It is expected that the

first meeting of the members of the Institute of  Architects of Canada will be held during the month of July next, to elect officers, adopt by-laws, etc.

Those desiring to become members of the new Institute are requested to communicate with M. Alcide Chausse, secretary pro tem, I .A.C., Box 259, Montreal.



<article title=" ARCHITECTS' PROFITS " author="">

ARCHITECTS' PROFITS.

In these days when so much is being written about the architect's fees and his small profits, it might, says the ''Architectural Record,'' be interesting to inquire: Can he make any profit on small jobs, and is it not a fact that a client who has only ten thousand dollars or so to spend on his house stands a slim chance of getting a well-designed and economical result? 

These questions were recently propounded, continues the " Record," to an architect who admitted that while it was true beyond a doubt that lie who has as many large jobs as he can handle, cannot afford to take small jobs—country houses for eight or ten thousand dollars, for example—another can make a very respectable income froni such and do thorough work. As proof of this assertion he pointed to his own experience of about thirty years. lie said that one of his colleagues came to him recently, confiding to hime his business woes. He was doing more work and larger work, but making much less profit, because (if tile way lie ran his office. He contended that architects are apt to fuss too much with small matters that don't really matter much one way or the other, that they employ draftsmen to do things which they, the architects, ought really to do themselves. Thus, he says, unnecessary drawings are often made by subordinates. These drawings, lie said, are only for show any how, and keep the draftsman employed, and as his job is precarious at best, he keeps on making such drawings just as long as his employer will stand for

it. Such drawings add nothing to the quality of the design, being often only elaborations of the architect s rough sketches.



<article title=" LICENSING OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

LICENSING OF ARCHITECTS.

 Missouri has recently hilled a bill for the examination and licensing of architects. Such bills (10 not have a very emphatic support from all the members of the profession, although there are a good many who do favor them. If they are ever to be made into laws, however. they will have to first command a bet— are backing from those in the profession.



<article title=" IMMENSE BUILDING STONE " author="">

IMMENSE BUILDING STONE.

The walls of the Acropolis at Baalbek are truly called Cyclopean. The famous Trilithon, the largest stones ever used in building, measure respectively 65. 64 and 68 feet in length, each block weighing about

750 tons. How these huge masses were actually placed in position twenty feet above the ground is a problem which modern science, with all its appliances, leaves vet unsolved.

Above them are Arab fortifications. The quarries whence these gigantic material were obtained are among tile most interesting features of Ballbek. Here may still be seen the method of work of the ancient  quarrymen, stones vertically hewn lying almost ready to the hand of the builder. One of these stones, to which the Arabs give I he name Hajar-el-Houbla, measures sixty-nine feet in length and weighs 915 tons.

