<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



petitors in these competitions. It is undoubtedly the fact, as stated by the President of the Ontario Association or Architects at the Ottawa convention, that the facilities do not exist for the proper training of Architectural students in Ontario, The Ontario government should provide these facilities at the School of Practical Science, where for years there has existed an Architectural Department that has a name to live but is dead. The matter is of the utmost importance to the future of Architecture in this province and country, and cannot too soon receive attention at the hands of the 0. A. A. and the legislature.





In a Consular report recently

<article title=" Production and Consumption of iron " author="">	Production and Consumption of iron issued from the Department of

Consumption of Iron.

Commerce of the United States, it is stated that the world's iron production in 1903 was 40,004)837 tons ; in 1904, 45,225,628 tons ; and in

1605, the last year for which figures were furnished, 53,997,965 tons. "The United States," the report continues, " is striding forward so fast in the production of iron that it promises not only to lead the great iron-producing countries, but to lead the rest of the world combined. While the absolute gain in the United States is almost equal to the entire gain between 1904 and 1905, the advance in Canada in 1905 over 1903 is still more remarkable, for the output nearly doubled. Still more remarkable is the advance in Japan, where a gain in the two years of nearly 600 per cent. is shown." It will thus be seen that at the present rate of production the world's visible supply of iron is becoming rapidly exhausted.





The third convention of the 

<article title=" Convention of Cement Users " author="">	Convention of Cement Users	National Association of Cement

Cement Users.

Users held at Chicago from the 7th to the 12th of January was attended by nearly one thousand persons. The manufacturers and agents of cement machines and equipment were largely represented and the exhibits in this line were most interesting and instructive. A number of valuable papers were presented treating of the proper handling of cement and concrete in the lines of construction in which these materials are principally employed—the subjects including "Cement Sidewalks," "Cement Testing," "Finish for Concrete Surfaces (printed in the Cement and Concrete Department of this number) 'Artistic Treatment of Concrete," "Progress in Cement Block Construction,,, "The Fire Resistive Qualities of Concrete." H. Welderhold, Philadelphia, described one of the largest pieces of work done in that city, being the widening of Delaware avenue, and in connection therewith the concrete sea wall along the Delaware River. His method was waterproofing with asphalt mastic, and in the course of his paper he gave his experiences of the last 25 years in his researches in several countries with a view to obtaining the best results. Vie then described the proper way to prepare asphalt mastic and how it should be manipulated by the experienced workman. The author pointed out that he was unable to give a uniform mixture to be used for all floors and waterproofing, as the mixture depends entirely on the use to which the floor is to be put, and it is here that the experienced workman comes in. Other papers treated of Tests of Concrete Blocks," "Forms for Concrete Construction," etc.

C.	A. & B. COMPETITION FOR A FARM HOUSE.

 JUDGES' REPORT.

<article title=" COMPETITION FOR A FARM HOUSE, JUDGES REPORT" author="Acton Bond, C. H.">

No. 1, " Westward Ho." '—The author of this design has entirely caught the spirit of a Canadian farm house, and is to be highly commended for his very admirable design. It would have been well if possible to have had the living room somewhat larger, but apart from this there seems to be very little to find fault with. The arrangement of the rear entrance, with the office and bathroom easily accessible, s a very good feature. The exterior has all the simplicity which such a building requires, and is treated in a very broad and interesting manner. The rendering is quite charming and shows great promise.

No. 2, ''Wood. ''—This design makes a very close second and is very good, but falls Below No. 1 in several respects; the arrangement of rear hail and office is not as good, and the bedroom floor is cut up a little too much no arrangement is shown in the basement for a dairy, which is very conveniently

placed in No. 1. The elevations are simple and generally in keeping with the subject, but the hip dormers on the wings are rather out of harmony with the general design. The drawing is very neat and indicates a good draughtsman.

No. 3, ''Byzyntine. ''—This design is a good one, but does not come up to the first two. It is very doubtful if it could he built anywhere near the limit of cost, unless possibly in a country where stone was abundant and could be had for the cost of hauling. There seems to be too much room lost in the halls for a building of this character. and it would almost seem better to have had the larger bathroom for an office. The bedroom floor is commendable, and the idea of having the dormitory and room for the men separate is a good one the basement plan is also good The exterior has a nice broad treatment and is in harmony throughout. The drawing is good.

No. 4, ''Parsnips. ''——Although this is a good design and has been thoughtfully prepared, the author has lot caught the spirit of a Canadian farm house nearly as well as the preceding ones. The drawing room is entirely out of place in a farm house, and we think it would be much better if the author had adopted the arrangement of the first three designs showing a very large living room and a dining room just large enough for its proper use. The exterior is very nicely rendered, but is rather too pretentious.

Nos. 5 and (_ "Homesteder" and "Couchiching."

—These two last designs are in a class by themselves, but if submitted by The veriest beginners in architecture the authors can he commended for the amount of thought and work which has been put into them. We would strongly recommend the authors to very carefully study the architectural magazines of the present day, both for ideas of design and rendering. Neither of the designs at all suggest a country farm house and, moreover, are very bad compositions. The authors should learn to leave the ruling pen alone when rendering perspectives.

(Signed) C. H.  ACTON BOND.

A H. CHAPMAN.

JonN GEMMEL.

J.	WILSON GRAY.

[The names of the prize-winners in this competition are :—First, Mr. Douglas Ritchie, 74 Guardian Building, Montreal: second, Mr. Chas. Dolphin, 73 Park avenue, St. Henri, Montreal; third, Cecil Burgess, 230 Wood avenue, Westmount, Montreal.

