<doctype type="text">

carried the day in spite of an inferior elevation. Eight of the English competitors have sent their designs for Mr. Carnegie's "Palace of Peace'' at the Hague, generally in the form of a perspective view. Mr. Belcher, however, shows only a couple of sections in plain line, which convey little idea of the general design. Art critics usually say that every building should be so designed as to express the purpose which it is intended to serve without the aid of anything that might be described as a trademark. None of these designs can be said to fulfil this condition. The obvious trademark for a ''Palace of Peace'' is a statue representing the Goddess of Peace, and that has been freely used. With one exception any of these designs might be intended for a town hall or almost any other civil or municipal building. The only one displaying any freshness or special skill in composition is that by W, S. Cross. This is planned with two parallel wings connected at the hack, thus forming an entrance court, which is entered through a graceful pillared screen. There are four domes. one at the end of each wing. which draw the parts together and give unity to the whole, while at the back of the court there rises high above the roofs a tall Doric column, surmounted by a statue representing peace. The whole scheme is well thought out in detail, and forms a very pleasing composition.

<article title=" The "City Hall, Belfast." author="">

The "City Hall, Belfast.'' by Sir Brummell Thomas, is a fine monumental design of Palladian character, but sadly spoiled by a weak and insignificant carriage porch. If one had seen this on the actual building instead of on the architect's own drawing it would have been difficult to believe that it was not a later addition by another hand. There are. amongst the newer buildings in London, several which are quite unworthy of the sites they occupy and the amount of money expended on them. The design for "New Offices for The Northern Assurance Company, Lothbury, E.C.,'' shows that unfortunately another is to be added to the number. It is fussy in composition, unpleasing in proportion and coarse in detail. A great contrast is the exceedingly satisfactory design of Mr. Reginald Blomfield. A.R.A., for the ''United University Club.'' This building, recently erected on Pall Mall East. is a carefully thought out composition, dignified and scholarly, and well suited both to its site and purpose.

How to make good architecture out of a building that appears to be supported mostly on upright sheets of plate glass is a problem which there is little reason to believe will ever he solved under present methods. it may be that the only possible solution is a frankly expressed iron or steel construction. any degree of success that has been attained hitherto has generally been due to a compromise. An illustration of this is afforded by two designs exhibited here. Both are for large business premises in Oxford street. one for Waring & Gilloro, now completed, and the other for Selfridge, in course of erection. They are very different in architectural character although the same architect's name appears on both, that on the former being R. French Atkinson and on the latter Atkinson & Burnham. In both the ground storey piers are presumably as large as is compatible with the demands of the owner for the greatest possible extent of window' space for the display of goods. These defends have in both cases been comparatively

moderate, so neither does much towards the solution of the problem. The Waring building above the ground storey may be described as consisting of a flat. red brick wall with window opening elaborately framed with stonework, the whole crowned by a sloping roof and dormers. The dominant expression is that of solidity and weight, demanding a correspondingly massive substructure to support it. The building is nearly 200 feet long, with a street at each end. The corners on the ground floor have been cut off, with a heavy stone pier on front and return, with a small show window between them, In the centre, between similar piers, is a very wide doorpiece, contracted to the actual doors by bent glass sides forming show windows. Midway between the central feature and the corner pier is another heavy pier. There are, therefore, six piers and five lintels. As no attempt is made to disguise the fact that the lintels must be of steel, and as they are of ample depth they convey the impression of being fully sufficient for their work. But the eye fails to receive a similar impression as regards the piers, and they look insufficient. The reasoning mind. acquainted with modern methods of construction, may know that the building is quite safe. but the artistic sense is not satisfied that it ought not to fall down. One rather clever feature is worth mentioning. Over the window in the angle at each end is a heavy projecting window of stonework and one storey in height. Whether intentional or not, the effect produced is that of a cantilever apparently counterbalancing the load on the lintel on the other side of the pier. In the other design the main feature is a series of heavy Ionic columns extending through the. first. second and third storeys. and supported by flat piers under them, no wider than their own diameter and showing practically no reveal nor anything to suggest that their narrowness is compensated for by their depth. Consequently they look entirely inadequate for their duty.

The mausoleum to the late Mr. Bannister Fletcher is not a striking design. It consists of four columns with an entablature forming a canopy over a bust and surmounted by a plinth and urn, the whole standing on a pedestal and steps, with an allegorical figure seated at each of the four corners. It is effectively rendered in color, with adjuncts of funeral-looking cypresses, which, however, are not exactly suggestive of Hempstead Cemetery.

One notices in this exhibition great variety of draughtsmanship. with less of pen and ink work than there would have been a few years ago, and more color. A number of the colored drawings, especially some of the interior views. display great skill and might have been sent to the water color room as paintings. Perhaps they err in being too pictorial. One cannot study the work in this room without being impressed by the importance to the architect of good rendering. whatever be the method chosen. Every architect knows that many a competition has been won by good drawing rather than by good design. Some of the drawings already referred to afford illustration of this. For instance, Mr. Blomfield's fine club design might be passed unnoticed, because it is represented by an exceedingly slovenly and inartistic pen and ink drawing. On the other hand the Northern Assurance Building. which does not compare with it in design is displayed to the best advantage by a

