<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	163



then, the bond stress developed in the mild steel rods was far below the bond resistance found in these tests.

In these tests the bars began to slip when the maximum load was reached. After slipping began, the resistance to motion was still considerable. The running friction, taken when the bar had moved about one-fourth inch, amounted to 54 to 72 per cent. of the bond developed in the case of mild steel bars and to 32 to 49 per cent. in the case of cold rolled shafting.

<article title=" A CEMENT ICE HOUSE " author="">

A CEMENT ICE HOUSE.

Double walls, which are such a requisite in an up-to-date ice house, can be easily made with cement. The appropriate mixture for such a house, says "Carpentry and Building," is one part cement to two parts clean sand and four parts of small broken stone. The excavation should be carried 5 feet below the surface and 16 inches should be allowed for the walls. A layer of broken stone, followed by one of coarse sand, well pounded down, should form the floor, and over this a good mixture of concrete should be spread.

The walls are formed by making boxes for every foot-section with boards. The walls should be 2 inches thick with a 10 inch space between. A layer of galvanized iron fiat strips should bind the inner and outer wall together every other foot-section up. The ends of the bonds should be turned in to give greater strength. After each section has hardened the forms can be removed and used for the section above. If the bottom and top of the walls are filled in solid with cement the air space will have no outlet for the air to circulate. The roof is made of wood and should be slanting to shed the rain, the eaves projecting a foot beyond the walls. The roof should be double,  like the walls.

In all ice house construction the cardinal principles of its purpose should be kept well in mind. The first consideration is that the ice must be protected from the outside air. If a current of outside air comes in contact with the ice it will quickly melt it, and any type of house which permits this will not answer the purpose. Another point that may be frequently overlooked is the need of perfect drainage. Some of the ice will melt, and as a consequence the water accumulates at the bottom. Ice standing in water will quickly melt no matter how well the inside is protected from outside air currents. The cement bottom of the ice house must, therefore, be able to carry away the moisture. If a cement bottom is used it must slope toward one side or in the middle, where a drain pipe is installed. Care must be taken in selecting the site to see that this drainage can be carried away. If the soil is thick it may be necessary to lay a soil pipe to conduct the water away from the foundations. Good drainage can be had in thick soil by digging a hole in the middle or corner of the foundations and sinking an old barrel. The barrel is then filled with loose stones and the drainage carried into this.

It is more important to have the bottom of the icehouse amply protected from outside air than the top. The ice in the bottom of the house must be used last, and for this reason it needs the most protection. It is possible to make an ice house too tight—that is, under the roof it may be so tight that there is no circulation of air. The result of this is that moisture collects inside and causes loss. The roof is simply to protect the house from rain and sun. Underneath it there should be good air ventilation. This will absorb the moisture and carry off foul air. Ventilation in the roof should be provided so that it can be increased or decreased to suit the conditions of the weather and ice. When the interior is damp it is a sign that there is not sufficient roof ventilation. Cool, dry air is the great consideration, and if this can be obtained the ice will keep indefinitely.

<article title=" ELECTROLYSIS THE CAUSE OF IRON RUST " author="">

ELECTROLYSIS THE CAUSE OF IRON RUST.

The rusting of iron is not due to the direct attack of oxygen combined with water. The role of the oxygen is a secondary one, and the underlying cause of rusting and corrosion is an electro-chemical or electrolytic problem. Iron passes into solution as a ferrous iron by replacing hydrogen which is set free; oxygen then oxidizes the ferrous iron to the ferric condition with the formation of a hydrated oxide. All soluble inhibitors, such as alkaline solutions or chromic acid and its salts, act either by presenting the presence of hydrogen irons or by electro-chemically preventing their attack. A solution of potassium dichromate no stronger than one six-hundredth normal will indefinitely prevent the rusting of polished specimens of metal in cold water, even if free access of air and carbonic acid is provided for. Under the same conditions at a boiling temperature no rusting or pitting occurs if the concentration of the dichromate is above two one-hundredths normal—Allerton S. Cushman, in a paper read before the American Society for Testing Materials.



COLORS FOR HOUSE PAINTING.

The effect of a house may be improved or marred by the choice of the colors for painting it. There is no doubt that the old New England houses, with their white paint and green blinds, presented a very charming appearance, when seen amid the beautiful elms of the quiet village streets, and indeed a white house almost always looks well when surrounded by considerable foliage. On the other hand, a white house becomes very glaring, when it stands out in the open, with the bright sky as a background. This shows at once, says Edward Hurst Brown in an article on ''Painting,'' in the American Carpenter and Builder, the necessity for making the colors harmonize or fit in with the surroundings, hence no general rule for color selection can be given. The idea that one color or one class of colors should be chosen because it is fashionable or the prevailing mode is for this reason rather an absurd one. In general, it may be said that dark colors should be selected only for a large house that stands out in the open, while lighter colors or tints should be chosen for houses that stand among trees or which are not over large. A house looks larger when painted in light colors than when dark colors are used. This is a point that should always be remembered, for most persons experience a keen feeling of disappointment if their house appears small, while if it can be made to look larger than it is they are more than satisfied.

