<doctype type="text">56	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



what was wanted, the contractors were all asked to come in and hid on the work. When all the bids were in, and when all the contracts had been awarded, it was found that the actual contract cost was only fifty thousand dollars away from the estimate of five million dollars that had been made before any of thc contractors had named their price. When building

can be done this way it saves the nerves of the owner. If the estimate is too high, he call cut his plans and try to satisfy himself with a more modest building. If the estimate is satisfactory, lie can order the engineer constructor to go ahead.

The engineer constructor must now plan his campaign like a general. He must not allow a moment to be lost. And, in order to avoid the loss of a moment, he must lay out a complete the schedule for his building to follow. The civilian is likely to imagine that the general of an army simply starts out in the direction of the enemy and wanders along till he finds him. In the same way the man who is not familiar with engineering practice is likely to think that the engineer simply starts building and keeps on building. jilt some day he gets through. As a matter of fact, the first thing that an engineer does when lie begins a building, is to calculate practically the exact day at which th it building will reach each successive stage in its construction. In other words, lie writes a diary for that building, hut he writes it beforehand, instead of afterwards. This table of dates shows the exact stage at which the building is scheduled to arrive on the days mentioned. It gives everybody connected with the construction of the building his cue for coming on and going off. it is th running-the for the construction engineer, just as the timetable of a railway is the running-time for the locomotive engineer.

As we go on now with our building, we will suppose that the owner wants a building with a steel frame. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that a steel frame is absolutely essential to the construction of a high building. There is one reason, among others, why a solid masonry building would he unsatisfactory to the modern owner. The walls of such a building have to be extremely thick. They must be immensely broad aiid strong. in order to support the weight of the structure. nrc. The consequence is that a great deal of space that might be used for offices has to be used for walls. If such a building had a steel frame, the walls would be so much thinner that the floor space, capable of being devoted to offices, would be increased by twenty-five per cent. Obviously, it is to the advantage of the owner to build with steel. The old County Building, Chicago, furnished us with an illustration. The walls of this building were twenty feet thick at the first floor. The walls of the new building, which is steel construction, at the first floor, are only three feet thick. The saving in floor  is obvious.

There is also another reason for preferring steel frame buildings of the most modern construction to buildings (If the old type. This second reason is their  superior safety.

Masonry itself, or slightly amid imperfectly supported, cannot sustain a. severe shock or jar (If the kind given by all earthquake. This was demonstrated in the San Francisco disaster, where buildings (If the old type tumbled down, while the steel frames of the modern buildings were practically intact after the earthquake and after the fire. The reason is to be found in the method of construction. The steel columns and beams were so firmly fastened together with rivets, arid so strongly braced, that the whole framework was practically as stiff and rigid as a. steel cage. The masonry walls were carried on the outside steel beams, and were tied to those beams with strong iron anchors at every floor. Finally, another precaution was added. Under the window sills of each story a flat band of iron, about five inches wide and a quarter of aim inch thick, was laid in the masonry and carried all the way around the whole

building. This band of iron is riveted to the columns as it passes them, and acts as a horizontal support for the masonry. The whole building could actually be tipped several feet out of a vertical line without endangering its integrity. 

For reasons of safety, therefore, as well as the desire to get more floor space, the owner of the prospective office building is likely to want a steel frame.

The plans made by the engineering force for the new building will now show exactly where every piece (If material is to be put. When the building is completed. the thing that seems remarkable is its size. When it is being built, the thing that seems remarkable is its infinite number of small details. All these details are represented ill the plans. These plans, specifications. blue prints, and documents of all sorts, multiply at an astonishing rate If they were all brought together in the case of a building like the Cook County Building, in Chicago, and put on a scale and weighed, they would tip the beam at something like thirty tons. At this stage it is not the big  work of engineering practice, but the small work, that attracts the eye. On the tables in the architects' and engineers' offices, where the plans are kept. They give a complete picture of the building, which has not yet been begun. The smallest piece of steel that goes into a column up on the fifteenth floor of the building is already in place, its exact place on the plans. The building exists completely in imagination before a single stone has been placed in the foundations.

The engineer constructor, if he is in complete charge of the building, will now proceed to let the































































 









OLD BUILDING DOWN, WALLS IN, CAISSONS COMPLETED AND COLUMNS SET.







contract for tearing down the old building. lime contractor who does the job of taking it away will make good use of all the usable materials it contains. lie will have a big yard or warehouse, ill which the steel, the iron, the stone, the bricks mind tile other materials will he sorted out and heaped up, and sold to people who can use them. In some cases the stone from the old building is crushed on the spot amid mixed with sand and cement, to make concrete to line used in the new building.

 While the old building is being battered down mind carted away, other contracts are being let. It was formerly customary to follow up the demolition of lime old building immediately with the excavation of the space for the foundations and basements of the new building. It is now feasible, however, to do the foundation work before doing I hue excavating. This seems like a contradiction in ideas. But the process

