<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	113\



posed to an initial pressure of 14,000 pounds per square inch while Betting. The strength given on the diagram was displayed by the cement at the age of fifty-seven days. The strength of ordinary Portland cement, tested neat, ranges from 6,000 to 9,260 pounds per square inch.

The strength of the white-oak stick seems low, taken in comparison with the strength of the long-leaf pine and the Douglas-fir wood. In small pieces, white oak has shown a compressive strength of 9,000 pounds per square inch. The figures here given refer to a post of commercial size.

(No. 6) The stress-strain curves of several representative materials are shown on this diagram. Steel and cast-iron are



BRICK PIERS



STRESS—STRAIN CURVES

















































bere, plotted for reference purposes. A paving-brick from Topeka, Kansas. occupies a position next to the cast-iron and steel. Then follow the curves of neat Portland cement, a brick from Lazearville. West Virginia, then a brick from Minneapolis, Minn., and the curve of a cement mortar of one part Portland cement and three parts sand, and at the lower part of the diagram appears the curve of a fire-brick from Ashby, Alabama. This diagram shows the range in compressibility which may be met with ordinarily. The number of curves might be extended, but other grades of material would occupy places between the curves of the paving-brick and the fire-brick.

(No. 7) The strength of brick piers will now be referred to. Diagram No. 7 shows the results with piers made of hard, and light-hard sand-struck brick laid in different kinds of mortar. Brick from three yards are represented, the amount of fuel used being 425 cords, 300 cords and 200 cords, respectively, per million brick. One grade only was received from the yard where the smallest quantity of fuel was used which was classified as hard.

The range in strength from the hardest brick, laid in neat



SOME STRONG BRICK

LAID IN NEAT CEMENT



































































cement, to the weakest light-hard brick, laid in lime mortar, is seen to be very great. In respect to the compressibility of the piers under loads, the difference is greater than shown by their ultimate strengths. It is desirable to use neat cement or a strong mortar in laying hard brick, in order to attain maximum strength and rigidity. Rigidity is regarded as an important factor in construction as well as strength.

Lime mortar should not be used, when either of the considerations just mentioned are essential

Two values are shown for two of the piers. The brick from these yards were paneled on one side, and the higher strength in each of these piers belongs to duplicates in which the panels were filled with neat cement before laying.

(No. 8) Some piers made of water-struck brick appear on Diagram No. 8. One yard furnished the hard, another the light-hard brick. The influence of the mortar on the ultimate strength of the pier is again well shown. It seems a wasteful effort to use a weak mortar in which to lay a pier of hard, strong brick.

(No. 9) The curves of compressibility of some piers are shown in this diagram. An earlier stress-strain diagram (No 6) showed corresponding results on individual bricks and other materials. On the present diagram the most rigid condition pertained to the pier made of dry-pressed brick, laid in neat cement. A pier of re-pressed mud brick appears next in the order of relative rigidity, then a hard sand-struck brick pier laid in less rich mortar than used for the re-pressed brick, and most compressible of the group is the pier of light-hard brick which was laid in lime mortar. The characteristics of these piers depend chiefly upon the quality of the mortar employed.

From this exhibit it may be seen how unfavorable is the action in a wall; the face of which may be laid with one class of work, while the backing is of another.

(No. 10) In order to illustrate the strength which may readily be attained in brick pier construction, the results of some strong piers have been brought together on the diagram now presented. The four piers represented on the right of the diagram are taken from earlier tests, the results of which are among the published records of the laboratory. The other



BRICK PIER CEMENT MORTAR AND WOODEN COLUMNS



STRESS — STRAIN CURVES





















































six represent piers built and tested just prior to the time of this convention. These later ones were intended to be strong piers, a result which was realized in the tests. They were about 8 feet in height each, nominally 12 inches square; they had hollow cores, and the bricks were laid on edge in neat cement.

The ages of the piers are entered along the lower edge of the diagram. One pier, the youngest of the series, was tested the day it was laid. The test began about one hour after the last brick was in place, and was finished three hours later, or when the pier was four hours old. It developed a compressive  strength of 2,106 pounds per square inch. The mortar had not hardened, and annual compressibility was of course displayed. The total load on the pier reached 118 tons, a load far in excess of any which could be expected to be placed upon it in constructive work, at so early an age.

Horizontal lines represent pounds per square inch on the left of the diagram, and, on the right side, tons per square foot. One pier reached a strength of 360 tons per square foot, another exceeded this load. The allowable load prescribed by the building laws of some cities is understood to range from 15 to 30 tons per square foot, which seems a very low limit in the presence of piers possessing the ultimate strength these displayed.

(No. 11) The stress-strain curves of one brick pier, two mortar columns and two wooden posts are shown on Diagram No. 11. These curves stand for strong examples of their respective kinds. These illustrations and others which have gone before were selected, in many of the cases, to indicate what seems best in constructive materials examples which could safely be followed where strong and safe construction in needed.

