PAUL JOREY

WOOD CARVER



62 AIKMAN AVE., HAMILTON, ONT.

<doctype type="text;ad">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	107



carried out as follows, as described in The Scientific American (New York, April 13)

"Some blocks of one-to-one Portland cement sand concrete were molded in a common metal water pail, with a piece of two inch wrought iron pipe placed vertically within the blocks to a depth of about eight inches. When the blocks were three years old, one of them was placed in a tank of sea water, and another in a tank of fresh water, and direct current was fed to the iron pipes in the center of each block, the negative electrode consisting of a piece of sheet iron placed in the tank. A third block, similar to the other two, was placed in a tank of sea water, but was not subjected to the electric current. After a period of thirty days the last named block was found to be in perfect condition, and the embedded pipe was perfectly bright. But the two other blocks, which had developed cracks during the test, were easily broken open; yellowish deposits were found in the cracks, where the concrete had deteriorated to such a degree that it could be cut easily with a knife: and the -pipes were considerably corroded, showing a loss of weight of over two per cent. Similar results were obtained in tests with blocks of standard Rosendale cement, made in the same mould although in this case the blocks were tested thirty days after they had been made."

·	That these results are of profound significance is asserted by the writer, who is of opinion that they call

for careful investigation on the part of concrete engineers, and the provision of special insulation in all cases where embedded steel, or reinforcing material, is liable to attack by stray currents near wet foundations. He concludes:

"The whole subject ofelectrolysis, whicli, because of the exaggerated use to which it has been put by a sensational press, has not received from technical men the attention which it deserves, should be made the subject of a searching investigation with a view to determining the laws and limits of this form of corrosion."









BIRCH FLOORING

VENEER FLOORINO

send FOR CATALOGUE

AND samples





THE KNICHT BROTHERS 00., LIMITED

BURKS FALLS, ONT.



ART CLASS WORKS

ESTADLISHED 1876.

Memorial Church Windows,

Geometrical and Quarrie Windows,

Art Glass for Residences, etc.

Send for designs and prices to



H. HORWOOD & SONS

	400 and 402 Dank Street,	OTTAWA.

Ogdensburg, N. V.

W. B. SNIDER,	H. W. ANTHeS.

	President.	Manager and Sec.-Treas.

W. w. SNIDER, Vice-President.





TORONTO FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Soil Pipe and Fittings, Boiler Stands,



Jefferson and Pardee Avenues, TORONTO and Liberty Street,

	ESTABLISHED 1849.



BRADSTREET'S

Capital and Surplus, $1,500,000.

	Offices	the 



Executive Offices:

Nos. 346 and 348 Broadway. New York CITY.U.S.A



THE BRADSTREET COMPANY gathers information that reflects the financial condition and the con trolling circumstances of every seeker of mercantile credit. Its business maybe defined as of the merchants by the merchants, for the merchants. In procuring, verifying and promulgating information no effort is warred and no reasonable expense considered too peat, that the results may justify its claim as an authority on all matters affecting commercial affairs and mercantile credit. Its offices and connections have been steadily extended, and it furnishes information concerning mercantile persons throughout the civilized world.

Subscriptions are based on the service famished, and are available only by reputable wholesale jobbing and

manufacturing concerns and by responsible and worthy financial judiciary and business corporations Specific

terms may be obtained by addressing the company or any of its offices Correspondence invited.

THE BRADSTREET COMPANY.

OFFICES IN CANADA: Halifax N.S. Hamilton Ont.

London Ont.; Montreal, Que.; Ottawa, Ont. ;Quebec'

Oue.; St. John, N. B. Toronto. Ont. Vancouver,

B.C.; Winnipeg, Man.; Calgary Aita.

THOS. C. IRVING,

Gen. Man. western Canada, Toronto

	Elegance	Richness,

Simplicity























We manufacture Fittings for Banks, Offices. Schools, Churches,Opera

Houses, Drug and Jewelry  Stores. Write for 



and prices to

further particulars



The Canadian Office

and	School Furniture Co., Limited,

PRESTON, - Ont., Canada 

