<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—No.	236.			AUGUST, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Students' Competition for a Small Suburban House.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Residence of W. P. Niles, Wellington, Ont.

John C. Green & Company's Wholesale Millinery, Toronto.





CONTENTS

Editorial -		-	-		-		-	137-138

Notes on Foundations	-					-		139-140

London's Building Collapse		-					-

Montreal Notes -	- 

Variations in City Growth		-	-				-	142

McGill Medical Building		Competition		- 

Smoke Nuisance Decision			-				-	144

Master Painter's Relation to		Architect				-		145

The Late George Watson		-			-			'45

Enlargement of British	Museum 

Our Illustrations		-	-				-	46

Walls for Buildings -	-	 -		- 

Engineer or Architect -		-	-				-	156

Street Lighting in the City of London				-		-

Some Varieties of Stone Building	-	-	-	'57

	Bridge Building by Electric Power		158

	The Failure of a Reinforced Concrete	Building at

	   Philadelphia - - -	-	'59

	The Septic Tank		160

	Hot Air Furnace Piping		161

	Tinting a Cement House		162

	Consistency of Mortar and Concrete		162

	Bond Between Concrete and Steel		1 62

	A Cement Ice House 

	Electrolysis the Cause of Iron Rust		163

	Colors for House Painting	-	163

	Saskatchewan's Water Supply - -	-  	 ii.

	Uniform Fire Resistance Construction -		Vii

	Workmen's Compensation - -		 x

	Concrete Building Code - -	-	Xii.



At a recent meeting of the Royal

	registration of	Institute of British Architects

registration of British Architects. <article title=" registration of British Architects " author="">

a revision of the charter and bylaws was made whereby there will be now admitted to the Institute a new class of members to be called "Licentiates." "The obvious intention in forming this new class of members," says the BUILDER'S journal, "is that it shall be a step towards the production of a Registration Bill, to be introduced into Parliament. The Institute's desire is, apparently, to bring within its fold a majority of the architects of this country, so that in approaching Parliament it can claim to represent the whole of the profession, and so defeat any opposition that may be set up by other bodies who claim, also, to represent the profession. The Institute naturally considers that its own members, who have in great part passed the examinations promoted by the Institute, or are men of undoubtedly high standing, should take a higher rank than those architects whom they now wish to bring within its scope for the purpose of subjecting these practitioners to its rules, as regards the rate of commission, professional etiquette, etc. This, of course, is all very well from the point of view of the Fellows and Associates; but it should have been more clearly recognized that the mere suggestion of putting a stigma upon those invited to join the new class of Licentiates would be destructive of the very purpose the Institute had in view, while some real inducement was required to make them join. The period for which admission to this Licentiate class is to remain open is one year only, as a trial. He must conform to the regulations of the Institute, but has no voice whatever in its affairs. He can neither attend the business meetings nor vote on any administrative question."

A Licentiate, moreover, must declare that he is not

engaged in any other avocation than that of an architect, nor may he engage in any occupation which, in the opinion of the Council, is inconsistent with the profession of architect, under liability of suspension or expulsion. How such a system will ultimately work out will doubtless be watched with interest by Canadian architects, in view of the movement now on foot looking to the formation of a Canadian Institute of Architects.

<article title=" The London Disaster " author="">

One of the most serious building

The London Disaster	collapses which has ever taken place in Canada was that of

Reid's Crystal Palace, London, which occurred on July 16th. Ten persons were crushed to death and twelve injured, and only a combination of fortunate circumstances prevented a much greater list of fatalities. It seems strange that London should have been compelled to give us two such costly lessons on the necessity for precaution in structural building as have been furnished by the collapse of the City Hall floor a few years ago and again by the disaster of last month. The question naturally arises as to whether London has been unduly lax as regards carefulness in building, and some are bold enough to assert that the necessary precautions have not been carefully taken in many instances, and that many of London's public buildings are just as liable as the Reid building to furnish the world with a costly lesson on the necessity for care in structural detail.

However that may be, it may fairly be assumed that in the future much greater care will be taken to guard against a repetition of the recent disasters, not only in London, but in other Canadian cities. Moreover, there has now been clearly shown the necessity for having a building inspector constantly on the

