<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" THE COST OF VENTILATION " author="">

THE COST OF VENTILATION.

In the recent book	"The School House,'' by Joseph A. Moore, Inspector of Public Buildings of the State of Massachusetts, there is an interesting comparison which shows that the actual cost of ventilation is not nearly so great as one is led frequently to believe. From a large number of observations, he says it appears that in order to supply a schoolroom with 1,500 cubic feet of air per minute when the temperature outside is 30 degree F., we shall have to introduce the air at the warm air inlet at about 93 degrees to keep the room at 70 degrees at the breathing plane of the pupils, thus raising the temperature of the air 63 degrees. Fifteen hundred cubic feet of air raised 63 degrees is equivalent to 94,500 cubic feet raised 1 degree. On the other hand, the average tests of a large number of unventilated schools show that to keep a schoolroom at 70 degrees with the outside temperature at 30 degrees, supplying 500 cubic feet per minute, the air has to be sent in at about 180 degrees. This is an increase of 150 degrees over the outside air. Five hundred cubic feet of air raised 150 degrees is equivalent to 75,000 cubic feet raised 1 degree.

Assuming that it costs the same in each ease to raise a cubic foot of air 1 degree in temperature, Mr. Moore thus holds that the increased cost of furnishing 1,500 cubic feet per minute in a schoolroom over the old method of furnishing 500 cubic feet per minute is about 26 per cent.



A very attractive catalogue, gotten out by the Ideal Machinery Company, of London, Ont., has just come off the press and presents in a tasty manner much useful information regarding their cement brick and block machines. There are also several pages devoted to data regarding the mixing, curing and coloring of concrete. A number of cuts of cement block dwelling houses and other buildings add much to the attractiveness of the booklet.



Don Valley Brick Works

Toronto







White Opalite Glass Tile

will not

Craze

or

Check

THE	CLEANEST AND

BEST MATERIAL

FOR

WALL PROTECTION





Used in Vestibules

Halls

Lavatories

Bathrooms

Operating Rooms



Luxfer Prism Company, Limited

TORONTO