<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



well-executed colored perspective. sometimes carelessness in putting in figures in the foreground spoils an otherwise good drawing. A case in point is the view of the ''Lancaster Town hall,'' by E. W Moumford. The figures are not at all badly sketched, but unfortunately the dranghtsman has not known how to keep them in perspective. The result is that while the spectator, who is supposed to be standing on the ground, is looking up to the building, he appears to be looking down on the heads of the intervening people. The effect is very peculiar, especially as the nearest figures are on quite a large scale. An excellent drawing is the view of a ''Villa at Antibes,'' by Ernest George and Yentes. Suggestive of the California mission buildings, the design is admirably suited to the site on a rocky part of the sunny Mediterranean shore, but the sky is more characteristic of England than of the Rivera. An effective pen and ink drawing in brown shows the round tower of the Gaiety Theatre at the corner of Although and the Strand. It would be difficult to find anywhere a more effective treatment of a round corner than this.

There are some good mark drawings in Indian ink, a style of rendering which can be made most effective, but which has been much neglected of late years. It calls, however, for fully as much skill as color work, because, if badly done, the result is even worse than bad coloring. Two notably good examples may be mentioned: the ''Offices for the Royal National Pension Fund for Nurses,'' by Mr. Paul Waterhouse now being erected at the foot of Buckingham street, just behind the fine old water gate which stands there and is shown in the foreground, and with which it harmonizes well; the other, Mr. Colicutt 's ''Suggestion for Street Bridges Across the Thames,'' already referred to.

Students can learn much from such an exhibition as this, both as to what to do and what to avoid. Some of the drawings illustrate the necessity for exercising a wise restraint, and show how an undue striving after originality often leads to bizarre effects which serve only to make the spectator wonder what the designer has been trying to produce.

<article title=" INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS OF CANADA " author="">



INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS OF CANADA.

Widespread interest appears to have been aroused among Canadian architects regarding the project of forming a national organization to embrace all members of the profession. The first report of the secretary of the provisional board, Mr. Alcide Chausse, shows that up to May 21st, application for charter membership had been made by ninety architects, all of whom had expressed enthusiasm for the project.

The report also outlines the probable provisions of an Act of Incorporation, according to which "no person within the Dominion of Canada shall be entitled to use the title of architect or any abbreviation thereof, or any name, title or description implying that lie is a corporate member of said institute, nor to act or practice as architect within the meaning of this Act,

(a) Unless such person is a corporate member of the Institute or becomes such under the provision of this Act; or

(b) Unless he is entitled, by some statute of the Dominion of Canada, or of any of the provinces of

the Dominion of Canada. to use the title (if architect or

(c)	Unless lie is practising as architect in the Provinces of Ontario, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island Manitoba and Saskatchewan, and the territories of the Northwest and of the Yukon, within two years, prior to the passing of this Act, however, a corporate member of the Institute.''

According to the Act as outlined, the following persons only shall be admitted as corporate members of the Institute to practice in Canada:

(a)	All persons now members in good standing of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, the Ontario Association of Architects, the Regina Association of Architects, and the Manitoba Architectural Association.

(b) All persons, being practising architects within the Dominion at the time of the coming into force of this Act, who, within one year therefrom, apply for admission to and pay the entrance or admission fee and the subscription fee required under the by-laws of the Institution; the application must be supported by an affidavit verifying the allegation of the application.

(c)	All persons who, having been admitted to study under the provisions of this Act, shall have passed the prescribed examination and shall have been licensed as architect by the Institute.

(d) All numbers of the aforementioned Associations of Architects at the time of the coming into force of this Act, who, at any date thereafter, apply for admission to and pay the admission and subscription fees required under the by-laws of the Institute.

(e)	And whosoever hereafter establishes to the satisfaction of the Council that lie was not a resident of the Dominion at the time of the coming into force of this Act; that by reasons of such absence he could not comply with its provisions or give the periods of .study and service required in the office or service of a corporate member of the Institute; that he has, however, been practising as an architect within the meaning of this Act, for a period not less than two years, and that he is a member of the highest grade of a society of architects or any other national architectural society of similar standing; gives one month's notice and, at the same time, pays the Institute the sum of twenty-five dollars, and passes the examination prescribed in this Act.

No member of the Institute shall himself be a building contractor or manufacturer or dealer in building materials or supplies, nor shall he enter into internship with any such contractor, manufacturer or dealer.

A meeting of the Council of the Institute of Architects of Canada shall be held within six months after the incorporation of the Institute for organization, making by-laws, election of officers, etc. The membership of the Institute shall consist of honorary members. corresponding members, associate members and students. A board of examiners of not less than seven persons, who shall be resident in the Dominion, to examine candidates for admission to the study or for admission to the practice of architecture, shall be constituted. Five members of this board. two of whom must have the proper qualifications and competency to examine all candidates for the preliminary and final examinations in French or in English, at the option of the candidate, shall be appointed by the Council, one member from McGill University, one from Laval University -and one from the University of Toronto. Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum. The board shall meet at least twice each year, at the cities decided by the Council, on the second Monday in January and July."

The first convention of the Institute will be held in Montreal, August 19 to 23, next.

