<doctype type="text">168	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



suits obtained in tests made by private investigators is due to the fact that the tests were applied only to small specimens not nearly approaching in size the parts or pieces used in actual construction. Heretofore it has been necessary to consult the results of these small tests in order to have some basis for design, but it is now clearly recognized that the best results can be obtained only from tests made on members as large as possible, or at least on pieces as large as those ordinarily used in structural work.

All the concrete used at the laboratories is mixed in three Chicago cube concrete mixers, each of which

sion are equipped with all apparatus necessary for conducting their tests.

Although reinforced concrete is used to a remarkable extent at the present time, and both concrete and reinforced concrete construction is becoming more and more popular every day, it is evident to anyone familiar with construction work that these materials will be more generally employed within the next few years. Many engineers are prejudiced against the use of concrete and reinforced concrete, but this prejudice is rapidly being removed by the obtainment and publication of reliable data regarding this material.











































FIG. 2.—TESTING A THIRTEEN-FOOT CONCRETE BEAM.







































































FIG. 3.-—ROOM IN Which CONCRETE BEAMS ARE STORED.



is mounted on skids, geared to a motor and equipped with charging hopper. One of these mixers has a capacity of one cubic yard, and the others will contain one-third cubic yard each. After the concrete is mixed it is carefully tamped in moulds to form the different pieces on which the tests are made, such as cylinders, cubes and beams.

The laboratory also uses five hollow concrete block machines, used for making concrete blocks similar to those used in actual construction, and the several different divisions—the constituent materials division, the beam division, the concrete block division, the permeability, the shear and tension and the chemical divi

Without doubt, in a very few years, when most of the principles underlying the use of concrete and reinforced concrete have been fully established from tests and investigations, there will be little prejudice against the use of concrete; the present prejudice evidently being due to lack of information.

The longest beam thus far tested in the beam division has been thirteen feet in length. Beams of this length for testing purposes are made in some cases without steel, and in others with varying proportions of steel, ranging from very small percentages up to three per cent. A full size beam in the testing machine is shown in Fig. 2. The load is applied at the

