<doctype type="text">130	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" MODEL TENEMENT IN ROME " author="">

MODEL TENEMENT IN ROME

A model tenement for workingmen has been built in Rome.

In the building are seventy-three three and four room fiats, renting at an average of $3.20 a month. One of the most unique features of the tenements is a school on, the ground floor for children of the tenants.

The school is visited each day by a physician, who looks after the health of the little ones. By this arrangement mothers can send the children to school and go out working.

There is a laundry in the house; electric lights were installed and pure filtered water is supplied. The tenement is in the San Lorenzo section of the city.— Architects' and Builders' Journal.

<article title=" COLOR IN ARCHITECTURE " author="">

COLOR IN ARCHITECTURE.

In acknowledging the presentation of the gold medal of the Incorporated Institute of British Decorators, "in recognition of his great work of the decoration of the choir of St. Paul's Cathedral," described as the most important decorative work executed in England in modern times, Sir William B. Richmond delivered an interesting address. The profession of the architect, he said, was now so complicated, and the demands upon his energy as well as invention were so various and numerous, that it was impossible under such a strain as circumstances imposed upon them that they should be masters of all the crafts. Failure must result if they attempted to be. It was quite enough for the architect if he was a supreme master of construction either in stone, marble, wood, or iron. Stability must be his first consideration. Proportion came so nearly in touch with stability, and fitness was in so close a league with beauty; that the three dicta were so closely bound up together that one was evidently the result of another. Where there was perfect stability there was certain to be good proportion, and where there was good proportion there was certain to be beauty. He was thinking of architecture in the abstract—thinking of it, as it were, in black and white, or as an anatomist thinks of the human frame, forgetting the color of the skin, the eyes, the lips, and the hair.

The study of color was in itself so difficult, so involved, that. for its success, he was going to say, a lifetime of experience was demanded. Color played so many tricks, was such a subject for them, because of the effect produced by light, or its absence, reflected or direct, and the general environment of tone, that no one who was not constantly employed in the use of color upon buildings could gain sufficient experience to achieve good results. For the attainment of success in color the architect had no time. When he tried he almost invariably failed. The great architects of the past were not specialists; some of them were painters and sculptors. The times did not ask of them to be business men; but it was otherwise now, and they were severely handicapped. Hence it too often happened that the use of marble—one of the most difficult of all materials, and one demanding an acute color sense—was often found to be detrimental to what otherwise might be a restrained and fine building.

As things were now, in the majority of cases an architect had better leave color alone, unless at the initiation of his design he was supported by the experience of a colorist. The divorce of color from architecture appeared to be surrendering to a closer bond between the painter and the builder. When it had entirely ceased, and the arts again became one— as they were one, three minds being better than one, those of the architect, sculptor, and painter—there was no reason why the modern building should not be as interesting, as stately, as unique in the perfection of all its parts as it was once, when men collaborated, when each learned from the other, and they worked together in a harmonious concord, desirous for perfection in all the various arts and crafts which a perfect building included.

<article title=" BOOK REVIEW – Essentials In Architecture - " author="">BOOK REVIEW.

Under the title, ''Essentials in Architecture,'' by John Beicher, the author has attempted in brief form and by means of copious illustrations to furnish a manual by which the general public may be enabled to form some intelligent estimate of the architectural worth of contemporary buildings. Not only to the public in general, but also to the professional reader, will Mr. Belcher's work be of considerable value.

The plan of the volume, as might be gathered from its purpose, is designed on popular rather than on scientific or technical lines, and aims to lay down certain underlying principles so that even the layman may be enabled to recognize and distinguish the varying elements of beauty in buildings that can boast of architectural features. In his preface the author states that ''In the eighteenth century a discriminating taste in architecture, and a knowledge of its first principles, were accounted an essential part of the equipment of a gentleman, but such knowledge and interest as exist among us to-day, outside of professional circles, are for the most part of the historical and antiquarian rather than of the practical order.'' A perusal of Mr. Belchor's work shows that he has made an admirable attempt to rectify this state of affairs.

''Essentials in Architecture,' by John Belcher. Publishers, B. T. Batsford, 84 High Holborn, London, E.C. Price 58 net.

Under the title ''Specifications for Street Roadway Pavements," by S. Whinery, M. Am. Soc. C.E., the Engineering News Publishing Company, of New York, have issued a booklet containing much useful information for city engineers and municipal authorities. The book deals with the subject under the following heads: Specifications, Foundations, Bituminous Pavement, Granite, Brick and Wood Block Pavements. The aim of the publishers has been to treat as completely as possible the question of pavements, from the preliminary stage of drawing up the written specification, through the details of construction, inspection, etc. to the completion of the contract. In addition to their value as memoranda and aids in preparing specifications for particular projects, the work aims to bring about correct standards for such specifications. Without appearing to dogmatize upon the correct practice in any particular case, the author is at all times clear as to what he considers the best method to adopt and has succeeded in compiling in handy compass a fund of exceedingly useful information.

''Specifications for Street Roadway Pavement,'' by S. Whinery, M. Am. Soc. C.E. Publishers, Engineering News Publishing Company, New York. Price, 50 cents.

For the purpose of showing the effect of fire and earthquake on different fireproof materials, the Brick Construction Association have issued a book, entitled Burnt Clay Products in Fire and Earthquake.'' By means of ninety-six pages of halftone cuts a pretty clear idea of the condition of type buildings, immediately after the San Francisco disaster, is given. ''Burnt Clay Products in Fire and Earthquake,'' published by the Brick Construction Association, 707 Lankershim Building, Los Angeles, Cal. Price, $1.



Ventilation through iron columns is practiced in a mill belonging to the Pulketh Company, at Preston, England, according to a report recently published by the United States Bureau of Manufacturers. The air is drawn in at the ground level and forced by a fan through a water spray, and then heated by coils in the usual manner. The air is next distributed from sub-ducts below the basement level through the iron columns of the building into the different rooms, the columns being fitted with openings near the top which are provided with suitable registers. The air is exhausted from these rooms through flues built in the brick walls.

