<doctype type="text">218	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



CEMENT AND CONCRETE





 









 







[Note -- Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers]

<article title=" CEMENT CONSTRUCTION DETAILS " author="Hicks, J. P.">

CEMENT CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.

By J. P. HICKS

	In Cement	World



In the accompanying drawings Figs. 1 and 2 represent a face or front view and a sectional view of a fine cornice for square houses of concrete block construction. By square houses we do not mean that the house must necessarily be square. but designed more





























Fig. I





especially for a hip roof, and the sizes most common are 24 x 28, 24 x 30, 26 x 30, 28 x 32. These are the dimensions of many of the houses being built at the present time, and these are sizes that divide up to advantage in laying out the rooms and make the best





















































Fig. 2





house for the money invested that it is possible to obtain.

This cornice is designed for a full two storey house, and a special feature of it is the wide plancier and

deep moulded frieze with dental work. Corbel brackets are regularly spaced under the plancier, with a bed mould cut in between the corbels. The upper portion of the frieze is double and wide enough to receive a band mould under the corbels. Under this is placed the row of dentals which should be a bout 1 1-4 by 5-8 inches thick, by about 3 or 3 1-2 inches long, and evenly spaced when nailed. The dental work is sometimes worked out at the mill, in which ease it is made of a 7-8 inch board about 3 1-2 inches wide, and in lengths of 12 to 16 feet, and is dadoed to represent the dentals. This is much the easier and quicker to put in place, and lust as good and perhaps better, as there is not such a large number of small pieces to be nailed on. A small nosing or band mould under the dentals completes the dental work.

To secure the cornice a 2 x 4 is laid flat on top of the last course t)f stone and 2 x 4 cut in upright, spaced to receive two bricks, and built up to the height





























required and capped with a 2 x 8 plate to receive the ceiling joists which extend out to support the cornice. The plancier cm he made of 5-8 ceiling, as shown. The corbels which are placed about 18 to 20 inches on centres add very much to the appearance of this cornice

Fig. 3 represents a form of making cement steps. Take a board or plank and saw it out with the rise and run for the stringer. Two will be required, one for each side. They have to be used in the form like a stair, bottom side up. Next dress out risers and nail them in place. In getting out the risers the top of them can be worked out, as shown, to form a projection on the step. This projection should not be over 1 inch, and should not slope down on the under side to give it strength. Steps made in this way look much better than lust the plain square step. The bank should be sloped off, as shown in the sketch, and the form put in its proper position and leveled up so that the steps will not be in a twist, and the form should also be set so that the steps will when finished incline forward from 1-8 to 1-4 inch, so that they will drain off water when finished. In mixing up the cement for

