<doctype type="text">52	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



similar size. If this is so it means a waste of money for builders of large structures. However, in buildings where wooden columns are used, it is a question whether it may not l)e ultimate economy to use the larger sizes, as in case of their partial destruction by fire they may still support the superstructure.

Considerable care has been taken to ensure the pub-lie safety where elevators, hoists, stairs and fire escapes are concerned.

The requirements for reinforced concrete are very explicitly given, but naturally much difference of opinion is expressed as to the correctness of the specifications made. The formula is: ''One part cement, two parts of sand, and four parts of clear stone or gravel. This mixture, after standing for 28 days, will have a resistance of 2,000 pounds to the square inch. Nothing but high grade Portland cement must be used, and it must develop a tensile strength of 600 pounds per square inch. The crushed stone must be small enough to pass through a three-quarter inch ring, and sand must be clean and coarse. These ingredients, blended according to the formula given, should produce the best kind of concrete.''

The by—law also provides for the use of cement blocks in building construction, as follows: ''The exterior walls of buildings, not more than 35 feet high, may be built of concrete blocks, as long as the hollow space does not exceed one-third of the superficial area. These blocks must he at least three weeks old, and shall be constructed of the same quality of cement specified for reinforced concrete.''

A provision is also made stipulating that ''hereafter no building shall be erected or altered to exceed one hundred feet in height, provided that buildings furnished with auxiliary pumps and other special fire extinguishing appliances, and spires, towers and domes, may l)e erected to a greater height if the plans thereof have been submitted to the Inspector of Buildings, and approved by him in the Council. '' In connection with this latter, the proviso might well have been made that even in buildings of much smaller size than those reaching a height of one hundred feet, an auxiliary plant for fire protection should be compulsory.

A commendable regulation has been made whereby wooden signs shall measure no more than two feet in height, ten feet in height being the limit for others of material other than wood.



<article title=" The building bylaws of the city of London; Ont. are being revised and the City Engineer is paying special attention to that portion respecting the erection of fire-escapes " author="Webb, Aston">

The building bylaws of the city of London; Ont. are being revised and the City Engineer is paying special attention to that portion respecting the erection of fire-escapes.

SIR ASTON WEBB.

ARCHITECT TO KING EDWARD Vh.



Through the courtesy of the ''Architect and Builder's Journal," THE ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is enabled to reproduce the above portrait of Sir Aston Webb architect to King Edward VII., who was presented with a medal by the American Institute of Architects at their fiftieth anniversary and fortieth annual convention, held at Washington, January 7, 8 and 9, this year.

<article title=" THE RELATION OF CONTRACTOR TO PROPRIETOR " author="Brown, W. M.">

THE RELATION OF CONTRACTOR TO PROPRIETOR.

(Written specially for the CANADIAN ARCHITECT and BUILDER) by W. M. Brown, C. E.



In the consideration of this subject there are several aspects in which it may be viewed. The first of these is the relation which exists in the framing and acceptance of a mutual contract. There are a few principles of vital importance that are involved in such an undertaking, and it is well that they should be examined and carefully considered before the seal of signature be affixed There is no doubt that there are unscrupulous proprietors, who seek to gain their own ends by certain measures they adopt in connection with contracts that are unworthy of the name of fair dealing, while there are many of a different class who treat their contractors with respect, consideration and liberality. Again, there are contractors of good and bad reputations, who put out work in accordance with these respective characteristics.

It is necessary that something be done to protect the interests of both parties in connection with acceptances of contracts and their proper fulfilment. Although mutual confidence may exist between proprietor and contractor, there is no saying when a dispute may arise that will alter their friendly relations. Therefore, it is advisable that clauses should be inserted in the contract that will protect the interests of both parties, so far as the contract stipulations are concerned.

After the several items of the contract have been duly considered, and the contractor and proprietor alike are mutually satisfied, the contract should be signed by both parties, as a guarantee of good faith. When both parties operate harmoniously together there are better prospects for the work being carried out to a satisfactory issue than if the eve of suspicion were continually directed upon the contractor.

It is a general axiom pertaining to human nature that where we repose confidence in anyone it is frequently reciprocated by him. Yet there are several conditions, usually attached to contracts, which we would now indicate. The first is the amount required to be stated as a guarantee for the proper completion of the work within a stipulated period of the. The amount agreed upon is generally a percentage, regulated by the total cost of the building to be erected. Again, there is sometimes, especially in large contracts, a clause that specifies the instalments to be paid to the contractor at intervals, according as the work progresses. These two conditions are very good measures to adopt for the proper execution of thie work, as they (10 not prejudicially affect either party, unless a breach of contract occurs. They are rather incentives to the contractor to perform his work expeditiously and satisfactorily, since lie is assured by the latter term of contract (regarding the instalments) that hue will be able to meet his wages and material bills at the proper times. On the other hand, the proprietor is often called upon to furnish a bond of security that hue is in a financial position to meet the demands of the contractor for the whole amount of cost of the building to be erected. This is also a good condition in the contract for it not only secures the contractor, but it also gives confidence to the manufacturers, with whom the contractor deals, for the prompt supply of material required.

In general, the architect is appointed to oversee at times the erection of the building, but in extensive

