<doctype type="text">156	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



thence at least 24 inches thick to a height of 100 feet or to the nearest tier of beams, thence at least 20 inches thick to a height of 135 feet or to the nearest tier of beams, thence at least 16 inches thick to the top.

For walls over 150 feet in height, each additional









































































25 feet in height, or part thereof, next above the foundation walls shall be increased 4 inches in thickness. The uppermost 150 feet of wall remaining the same as specified for a wall of that height—Louis A. Abraham, in ''Architects' and Builders' Magazine''



<article title=" ENGINEER OR Architect?" author="">

ENGINEER OR Architect?

That the architect is in danger of losing prestige by reason of the apportioning of his work to engineers and others who are little by little narrowing the scope of his operations is made the subject of an article which recently appeared in "The Illuminating Engineer," and which reads as follows

With the enormous increase in complexity of knowledge which has been the outcome of scientific progress, the term ''engineering'' has proportionately enlarged its scope and meaning, until at the present time, it is made to cover almost every phase of human activity. It has even been seized upon by the professions entirely apart from material activity, the term "commercial engineer" furnishing an example.

Broadly speaking, an engineer is one who applies scientific knowledge to practical use.

Keeping this definition in view, what is the distinction between the engineer and the architect? The de

sign and construction of a modern building certainly v involves the scientific application of physical facts and laws to a very large extent, and to just such an extent is the designer of the building an engineer. There is no essential difference between designing the steel framework for a building and a steel structure to be used as a bridge and the latter is clearly within the province of the civil engineer

Similarly, the installation of an electric lighting plant is no less a mechanical and electrical engineering problem when put into a private building than when put into a special building and called a ''central station.'' The heating ventilating, likewise, calls for purely engineering skill; and last. and too often least, the illumination is, or should be, in full charge of an illuminating engineer.

What then is left to the architect? Only the division of the space into the various rooms, and the decorative details of the structure. To these might be added the kind of material used, although the various engineers are quite as competent to specify in this particular.

The fact is that the conditions of modern civilization have entirely changed the status of the architect. Instead of being a creator of ideas and ideals. the architect of the present time is a mere copyist and compiler. The creative geniuses who worked out the architectural masterpieces of Greece and Rome, and the cathedrals of the middle ages, have no counterpart in this twentieth century. What passes for architecture at the present time is a mere conglomeration of the structural and ornamental forms developed in the periods mentioned.

Why then should the architect of the present time consider himself the master, an(1 engineers of every description his subordinates? Instead of the architect employing engineers, as he may see fit, why should not the master engineer call in the architect to add such embellishments to his structure as may be consistent with its proper use, and the limits of cost? Such a division of labor and responsibility would certainly be much more in keeping with the actual conditions as they exist to-day, and would furthermore go far toward preventing the construction of that numerous class of buildings best described in Lawson 's picturesque language as ''pastry cook's nightmares in bronze and marble."



<article title=" STREET LIGHTING IN THE CITY OF LONDON " author="">

STREET LIGHTING IN THE CITY OF LONDON.

Being determined to ascertain the best system of street lighting by means of electricity, the Corporation of the City of London has placed the city of London Electric Lighting Company and the Charring Cross Supply Company in open competition. it is realized that during recent years great advances have been made in the perfecting of illumination by the electric current, while the cost per lamp has been considerably reduced. The Streets Committee have, therefore, made arrangements for the lighting of Holborn Viaduct, New Bridge street and Cannon street by the respective supply companies in open competition with the best available electric apparatus. The competition will take place during the winter, when both companies will demonstrate the value of the latest appliances at their respective commands.

