<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" HOMES FOR WORKMEN " author="">

HOMES FOR WORKMEN.

The efforts being made in Toronto by the local branch of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association to father a scheme for the building of workingmen's houses seem to have at last assumed definite shape, and soon some tangible results will be in evidence. A stock company, capitalized at $1,000,000 is being organized, and it is thought that little difficulty will be experienced in raising the necessary capital. As yet no definite plan has been decided upon for the proposd houses, which are to be semi-detached, of brick veneer with concrete cellar, and have six rooms each, the cost being about $1,800. The idea is to

in Hamilton four years ago. This company 's charter gave them the right to manufacture farm machinery only, so, when the problem of finding homes for their employes had to be met, the promoters formed the Eastern Building Company, Limited, for the purpose of putting up the necessary houses, and one hundred and fifty were erected with the expectation of renting them to the workmen. However, so many of these objected to paying the rental, amounting to about five per cent. on the investment, and preferred t.o buy a home of their own, that the company determined to give them that chance. Accordingly, a basis of sale was arranged, 10 per cent. down and











































REPRESENTATIVE WORKINGMEN'S HOUSES, EAST FULLERTON AVENUE, HAMILTON, CONSTRUCTED BY THE EASTERN

BUILDING SOCIETY (INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY.)

























































REPRESENTATIVE WORKINGMEN'S HOUSES, WEST FULLERTON AVENUE, HAMILTON, FOR SALE AT $16 A MONTH,

CONSTRUCTED BY THE EASTERN BUILDING SOCIETY, (INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY.)



encourage workingmen to undertake to buy these houses, by an initial cash payment of $100 and subse quent installments of $16 a month for twelve years. The monthly payment includes taxes, etc., and will leave the purchaser in much the same position as an ordinary renting tenant until his house is his own. it is intended to build at once from 50 to 75 of these houses in various localities.

Toronto will have one or two useful examples to study in her attempts to house the workingman. The city of Hamilton is tackling the problem in. much the same way as is being contemplated in Toronto, but appears to have been forestalled in the movement by the International Harvester Company, which located

the halance at the rate of $16 a month. According to the company's statement, seventy-five houses have thus been sold to employes, none of whom were earning less than $2.50 per day, care being taken to see that the purchasers were industrious and economi cal. This discrimination was made in order to prevent houses getting into the possession of men who might later prove undesirable employes. 

The houses put on the market by the Eastern Building Company are erected in the vicinity of thirty large factories arid industrial concerns, all of which are constantly expanding and may therefore be expected to supply a demand for housing accommodation for many years to come.

