<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" P. Q. A. A. SHETCHING CLUB " author="">

P. Q. A. A. SHETCHING CLUB

Members met on the 12th of December in the rooms of the Association when Mr. W. S. Maxwell and Prof.

P.	E. Nobbs were present to discuss and criticize the designs sent in for the first of the series of competitions. Class "A" problem was for a design for a series of five rooms to form an exhibit of Canadian Home Industries. For this $25 was being offered in prizes by the Canadian Handicrafts Guild. As regards plan the first place was awarded to Mr. Brammall Daniel who had placed his rooms centrally in the gallery where they are to be exhibited thus effecting an economical arrangement of the partitions, good lighting and excellent opportunity for the public to circulate around the whole with good view of the exhibits. For this plan $10 was awarded, but the treatment of the rooms themselves was considered to have missed the character specially to be aimed at, that of the employment of home-made fabrics and especially those of Canadian character. Of the drawings showing interior treatments three were selected as specially suited for the purpose. Two of these were submitted jointly under the names of Mr. Hutchings and Mr. J. Roxburgh Smith and for these two $10 prizes were awarded. A third by Mr. Rankine, not so brilliantly drawn, came nearer than any of the others to the desired spirit of work aimed at and for this $5 was accordingly awarded.

In the class "B" or junior problem the design for "An Outlook" making use of the Ionic Order, first place was awarded to Mr. Thos. Mace.

On the 19th Dec. a lecture was given before the Club by Mr. Outhet on the subject The House in Relation to the Landscape. The lecturer dealt with the different ideals possible in sites of different characters

—the importance of considering good and convenient access as an element in fixing the position of a house and of observing all points of exposure and aspect. Though appreciating highly the value of trees, both as beautiful objects and as useful to a site in keeping the soil from being washed away, the lecturer believed that in many cases in order to make the best of a site in opening up good views of mountain and water it was often enough essential to sacrifice trees and one should not hesitate to do so. He strongly recommended a more extensive use of evergreen trees for picturesqneness and for shelter in winter. In the discussion which followed the lecture the general absence of evergreen trees from our city parks was much emphasized.

After the Christmas and New Year vacation the meetings of the Club were resumed on Jan. 9th, when announcement of the new subjects for competitions was made. In the senior division an organ case for a late Gothic church was the problem; -- in the junior division, — an equestrian Monument for a square. Seven members took part in the enquine problem.



Crown Art Stained Glass Company. Limited

	Phone Main 5006	96-98 ADELAIDE ST. E., TORONTO





MEMORIAL AND FIRT STAINED GLASS

EXPERTS IN Glass-Tiling, Stained Glass, both lead and copper, and Glass Signs of every description

















The Locomotive and Machine Company

	OF MONTREAL,	LIMITED





































Works of the Locomotive and Machine Co of Montreal Limited during process of construction. Structural Stee1 by the Company's Structural Steel Plant

	NEW YORK OFFICE	Structural	All Purposes.	     WORKS

	    111 Broadway, N.Y.			Long Point, Montreal







Principal Office, IMPERIAL BANK BUILDING, MONTREAL 