<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	159

<article title=" THE FAILURE OF A REINFORCED CONCRETE BUILDING AT PHILADELPHIA " author="">

THE FAILURE OF A REINFORCED CONCRETE BUILDING AT PHILADELPHIA.

The three storey and basement reinforced concrete building in course of construction for Bridgman Bros. Company, manufacturers of steamfitters' supplies, at 15th street and Washington avenue, Philadelphia, collapsed on July 9th, killing two of the workmen and injuring, more or less seriously, about thirty others. The building, which is to be used as an annex to the present plant, is built of reinforced concrete columns girders and floor slabs, with brick face walls. Although it adjoins existing brick buildings on each side, the side walls are of entirely independent construction.

The design was made by Milligan & Webber, a firm of Philadelphia architects, with the advice of Mr. Amos W. Barnes, consulting engineer, and was fully approved by the Bureau of Building Inspection of the city. Some trouble had been experienced with the foundations in underpinning the walls of the adjoining buildings, but the footings as finished were fully capable of bearing the load upon them. Floors were designed for loads of 180 pounds per square foot on the first floor and 120 pounds per square foot on the second and third floors, with 30 pounds per square foot on the roof. The reinforcement is of straight round rods. The columns are reinforced in the four corners by vertical rounds tied together with wire for ease in manipulation, but not to give additional strength by hooping. Very heavy reinforcement was placed in the beams and girders. In addition to the usual horizontal straight rods, shear stirrups made of ordinary rounds bent in U shape and varying in size with the depth of the girder, were placed near each beam and girder end. The exact size and position of these stirrups are not at all well shown on any of the available drawings, and an inspection of the destroyed portion failed to discover their presence in several of the beams and girders, as provided for in the design. With the exception of these omissions, which are not at all conclusive, owing to the shattered nature of the debris, the design of reinforcement has been well adhered to. In order to provide resistance to continuous beam action over supports, every other tension rod was raised from the lower edge of the beam to the upper at each column and carried through the column in this position, wire ties connecting beam and column reinforcement. Floor slabs were reinforced with 3 inch wire mesh.

The concrete used was hand mixed, and extremely high in cement, consisting of one part cement, one part sand and two parts stone. The cement was of standard brand, but as far as can be ascertained not subjected to any but the regular mill tests; the sand was of good grade and quality; the stone for the first two storeys of the building was a crushed trap or blue-stone, and for the third storey and roof a clean, hard gravel Where proper time had been allowed it to set, the concrete was hard and compact, fully equal to any load to which it could have been legitimately subjected.

At the time of the accident, the first three floors had all been completed and the forms removed, the newest concrete in these lower floors being about a month old. All of the columns supporting the roof were finished mid on the north half of the building (where collapse occurred) the roof girders and slabs

had been in place 5 1-2 days. Form work was going on at the time upon the girders and slabs of the southern slope of the roof. The girder spans of 17 feet were supported by seven struts spaced about 2 feet. According to the regulations of the city of Philadelphia, these struts should have been allowed to remain in place two weeks from the time of depositing the concrete. However, on the day of the collapse, the sub-foreman in charge of concreting ordered a Negro laborer to remove every other strut from under each of the roof girders, thus leaving the girder to be supported by three or by four struts, according as the laborer understood the order. The sub-foreman did not remain to see this work started, but left for another lob which his company was building. The Negro transmitted the order in turn to some Italian laborers who, from ignorance of the language, misunderstood and proceeded to knock out every strut under girders holding concrete which had been deposited but 5 1-2 days previous.

It is not known just how far this action proceeded, but beginning at the back of the building, where the removal work probably started, the whole existing roof structure gave way and, pulling with it the girders and columns, broke through each floor in succession. The most northerly bay of the first floor was broken and the whole mass of debris carried through to the basement. The bay directly south of this, on the first floor, held under the heavy impact of the falling mass and although the girders and beams were badly cracked, the floor system did not give way.

The concrete on the second floor, which had been in place well over a month, is very solid and hard, and the girders at this point failed in direct vertical cracks, stripping the concrete from the encased rods. The connections at the columns between reinforcement must have been very firm to permit of failure in this manner. The floor slabs broke clean at the girder edge, each piece of wire mesh being broken off there and not pulled out from the remaining slab.

An examination of the concrete in the structure shows that the material in the lower part of the building, which had been in from one to two months, was hard and solid and of as good structure and strength as the best. The material taken from the upper part of the work, which had not had sufficient time to set, was of a more fragile nature, somewhat crumbly and easily broken, showing that the set of the concrete had not advanced to a strength sufficient for the removal of supporting forms. Owing to the very low pressure in the water mains at this low-lying part of Philadelphia, it was difficult to get water up to the roof of the building to wet down the concrete in setting, and so this very important operation was omitted altogether in the upper storeys. A careful investigation is now being made by the building department of the city and also by experts for the coroner's inquest, but unless some new developments arise which can in no way be found at the present time, the accident seems to have been due entirely to the premature removal of supporting struts from under the roof girders. Considering the state of the concrete in the upper part of the building, it is certain that the safety of the structure would have been seriously endangered by the removal of even every other strut, as ordered by the sub-foreman. The removal of every strut from forms containing little better than a hard mud was certain to cause collapse.

The sub-foreman who ordered the removal of the struts has been held by the coroner for $3,OOO bail, charged with criminal negligence. the coroner jury has not yet reported on the case.—" Engineering News."

