<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	5



shops in connection with the works and a fire department.

The business of the Don Valley Brick Works has greatly increased during the past few years and the plant is kept in constant operation giving employment



















































































































to about 175 men. Spring creek was dammed by the company and there is consequently a good supply of pure water obtainable. The railway facilities are of the best, a siding being constructed in the yards over which all the lines can operate.

It might be interesting to note that a contract for the supply of 600,000 white enamel brick was recently awarded this company by the Dominion Government, to be used in the erection of the Mint at Ottawa.



<article title=" CEMENT INDUSTRY AT OWEN SOUND ONT." author="">

CEMENT INDUSTRY AT OWEN SOUND ONT.

The season of 1906 was the most successful season in the history 01 the cement industry for the companies at Owen Sound, Ont. The demand and the price were both good. The season opened with the price at $1.70 a barrel, and closed at about &1.60 to $1.65. Many improvements will be made at the different mills during the winter.

At the Imperial Cement Works the past season has been by far the most successful in the history of the company and the output was between 95,000 and 100,000 barrels. Before the mill opens up again about March 1st extensive improvements will be made that will give the works a capacity of from 800 to 1000 barrels a day. In the grinding plant two new separators and a ball mill will be installed. The drive on the rotary kilns will be rearranged and the boiler capacity will be increased by the installing of a new boiler and equipping each with Murphy automatic stokers. Besides the improvements at the works an additional dredging outfit will be installed at the marl beds at Williams Lake. During the past season the plant has been run at full capacity and with the enlarged plant even greater things may be expected next season.

The Sun Cement Company report that they have had a most successful season. Demand has been steady, prices good, and consequently the plant has been kept running to its full capacity in order to fill its orders. During the season about $7,000 was spent in improvements to the works, and it is the intention of the directors to further increase the capacity of the plant next season. The total output for the season was about 100,000 barrels.

The annual meeting of the Grey and Bruce Company brought forth most satisfactory reports for the season's work. Their full output was taken, and more might have been disposed of if it could have been turned out. No extension of the plant is contemplated at present.





Argentina as a source for the supply of linseed has not lately been doing well. The  coming yield is put at 50,000 tons less than the  quantity forecasted by the Government Agricultural Department. The exports up to now—about 350,000 tons — are 150,000 tons less than the quantity for the same period last year. Touching the next harvest, prospects happily were better, as the drought, which had lasted in the linseed areas almost six months, had come to an end with a copious rainfall.



Long before the San Francisco earthquake the Japanese had noted the marked advantages inherent in reinforced concrete, and it is understood that engineers from that progressive country have instituted a series of tests, in which small structures are mounted upon tables capable of being vibrated in the same way in which an earthquake would shake a similar structure, and the effect of various kinds and durations of shock carefully studied.



At one time there were no fewer than 700 timber churches in Norway, but only 24 now exist -- fantastic relics of many centuries ago. The first impression suggests Chinese influence; but, in reality, there has been nothing of' the kind, the churches being simply a Norwegian development of the Romanesque basilican plan.

