<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	9



Chausse, the President, asked to be allowed to vacate the chair to facilitate the particular business in hand, and Mr. A. C. Hutchison, past-president, took the chair at the request of the meeting.

Mr. Chausse then explained the circumstances of his appointment to act along with Mr. Ewart, of Ottawa, and Mr. Burke, of Toronto, on a committee of management and adjudication. In the course of making the necessary arrangements he had taken occasion to consult with his confreres, the members of Council of the P.Q.A.A., placing before them a tentative set of conditions. At that time the Council unanimously recommended that the conditions should guarantee to the author of the design which should be placed first the joint employment with the government architect in the carrying out of the work. A letter to this effect had been sent to the Minister of Public Works but had not received the curtesy of a reply, and Mr. Chausse's own representations had also failed of success. Receiving no support in this matter from the other members of the committee of adjudication, Mr. Chausse had signed the conditions in their present form, but as he realized that these conditions did not give entire satisfaction he had called this meeting in order that the Association might discuss the question as a body and express its views officially.

Mr. Gardiner, seconded by Prof. Nobbs, asked for the resolution on this matter which had been drawn up by the Council of the P. Q.

A.	A. on the 5th of October, and copies of which were forwarded to the Minister of Public Works and to the members of the Board of Assessors, and to which no replies had been received. The secretary read the resolution.

In the general discussion which followed, Mr. Chausse was asked if he could state any particular objections that had been made to ensuring the author of the best design a share in carrying out the work. Mr. Chausse replied that the objection was the idea that some one might be given first place who had no other qualities but smart draughtsmanship to recommend him.

Prof. Nobbs said he regretted there appeared to be such imminent risk of another being added to the long list of mismanaged competitions. The action taken by the Council of the P.Q.A.A. in this matter had been unanimous, but, as it appeared, ineffectual. As a member of Council he would like to call for an expression of the opinion of the Association on the conduct of the Council, to let them know whether they had the backing of the Association on the question. He therefore proposed a resolution which after some adjustment at the suggestion of Mr. Jos. Perrault, Mr. Archibald and others, was moved by Prof. Nobbs, and seconded by Mr. D. N. MacVicar. This resolution was to the effect that the meeting endorses the

efforts of the President and Council to obtain better conditions in the fortheoming competition for the New Departmental Buildings in Ottawa, on the lines of the resolution of the Council of October 5th, and regrets their non-success, and moves that with a view to remedying the difficulty a deputation of three members of the P.Q.A.A. be appointed to confer with the Ontario Association of Architects at their annual meeting in Ottawa on January 15th, and if the two Associations agree on the matter, that a joint deputation should wait on the government authorities with a view to altering Clause 12 of the published conditions on the lines of the said resolution of the Council, and should then report to the Annual General Meeting of the P.Q.A.A. This resolution was carried on a division. Prof. P. E. Nobbs, Mr. A. C.



































































<article title=" DESIGN FOR A MODERATE COST HOUSE " author="">

DESIGN FOR A MODERATE COST HOUSE.





Hutchison and Mr. Jos. Perrault were then appointed to act as the deputation in

 the matter.  DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR  MODERATE COST HOUSE 

Frame house of seven rooms, of the "center hall" type. Living room is extra large, being 13 ft. wide and 25 ft. long. Birch is to be used for the finish of first storey, except in kitchen and bath room, and Georgia pine for balance of house. Plain oak floors are provided for first floor, except in kitchen and pantry, where maple is to be used. Second storey floors are of quarter sawed Georgia pine. There is an attic, with stairway leading to same. Basement walls are of brick. Main body of house is 26 ft. by 36 ft. 2 inches. Hot water heating plant is provided. Estimated cost $3,200.00.



