<doctype type="text">22	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





















<article title=" THE TREATMENT OF CONCRETE SURFACES " author="White, Linn">THE TREATMENT OF CONCRETE SURFACES.

The following paper was read by Mr. Linn White engineer South Park Commissioners, Chicago, Ill., before the National Association of Cement Users, in Chicago, January 7-12, 1907:A pleasing and consistent surface finish generally

has but little to do with the strength of a concrete structure, but it is not inconsistent with maximum strength in any structure. 

Next to form 01 design the character of the surface has most effect 011 the appearance of concrete, whether in a building, arch, wall or abutment ; in fact, when the view is had at a very close range, or in such structures as retaining walls or pavements, the surface finish may take precedence over proportion.

It is not intended to attempt a full discussion of the subject, but only to describe some methods used in trying to obtain satisfactory surfaces in the various classes of concrete work done in the South Park system of Chicago. 

The	imperfections in the exposed surfaces of concrete are due mainly to a few well—known causes which may be summed up as follows

1.	Imperfectly made forms.

2.	Badly mixed concrete.

3.	Carelessly placed concrete.

4.	Efflorescence arid discoloration of the surface after the forms ire removed.

Forms with perfectly smooth and even surface are difficult and expensive to secure. Made of wood as

they usually	are,	it is not practical to secure boards

of exact	thickness,	 joints cannot be made perfectly

close, the omission of a nail here and there allows warping, and the result is an unsightly blemish where least wanted

Badly mixed concrete gives us irregularly colored, pitted and honeycombed surfaces, with here a patch of smooth mortar and there a patch of broken stone exposed without t sufficient mortar. Careless handling and placing will produce time same defects.

But granting we have the best of labor, that all reasonable expense and care is had in making up forms, in mixing handling and placing the concrete, that it is well spaded, grouted, or the forms plastered on the surface, the results are not satisfactory. All these efforts tend to produce a smoothly mortared surface, and the smoother the surface the more glaring becomes minor defects. The finer lines of closely made joints in time forms become prominent time grain of the wood itself is reproduced in the mortar surface, hair cracks are liable to form, and, worst of all efflorescence and discoloration are pretty sure to appear. We surely have been working on a wrong theory.

it is of doubtful efficiency to line the forms with  sheet metal or oilcloth. Imperfections still appear.

Two methods suggest themselves as likely to overcome the defects alluded to above (1) Treating the surface in some manner after the forms are removed to correct the defects, and (2) using for surface finish a mixture which will not take time imprint of, and which will minimize rather than exaggerate, every imperfection in the forms and which will not effloresce.

Methods of treating the surface by bush hammering tooling and scrubbing with wire brushes and

water have been described in various published articles, all of which have for their object the removal of the outer skin of mortar in which the various imperfections exist. But the method most used in the South Park work is the acid treatment. It consists of washing the surface with an acid preparation to remove the cement and expose the particles of sand and stone then with an alkaline solution to remove all free acid, and finally giving it a thorough cleansing with water. The operation is simple and always effective. e It can be done at any time after the forms are removed, immediately or within a month or more. It requires no skilled labor, only judgment as to how far the acid or etching process should be carried. It has been applied with equal success to troweled surfaces, like pavements, to moulded forms such as steps. ballasters, coping, flower vases, etc., and to concrete placed in forms in the usual way. It, of coarse, means that in time concrete facing only such material shall be used as will not be affected by acid, such as sand or crushed granite. It. excludes limestone.

The treated surface can be made any desirable color by selection of colored aggregates or by the addition of mineral pigments. The colors obtained by selection of colored stone are perhaps the more agreeable and doubtless more durable.

There have been moulded in the South Park shops blocks for buildings, columns, architectural mouldings and ornaments with both red and black crushed granite surfaces, also pavements laid in patterns with red and black granite, all treated with time acid to bring out time natural colors of time stone. There has been a large quantity of concrete pavement laid with torpedo sand surface colored a buff sandstone color with a small quantity of yellow ochre and mineral red and treated with the acid The buff color imparted to the surface is a welcome relief from the glare (if the ordinary whitish grey concrete pavement in lime sunshine, and time etching (if the surface acids to time softness of time color, at time same time preventing any slippiness. This same buff color has been used 1(1 a large extent in steps. bases (if lamp posts, amid other moulded articles to lie placed on or near time ground. With white sand as the aggregate thousands of pieces have been moulded for coping ballustrades, concrete seats, drinking fountains, pedestals, etc., which, when treated with time acid, appear like a fine grained, almost white sandstone.

Where there are projections or marks heft by time moulds or forms they are tooled or rubbed down before treatment, and where it is necessary to plaster up rough places or cavities in lime surface it may be done, and after treatment cannot lie detected.

These various classes of work have been clone on a large scale during the last three years in connection with the improvement of next parks and have in all cases proved satisfactory.

The second method of preventing or minimizing surface defects has also been tried in time South Park work with quite a measure of success.

 During time years 1904. 1905 and 1906 groups of concrete buildings have been erected in nine different parks costing. with their accessories. from $65,000 to $150,000 for each group. These buildings are all monolithic structures with occasional expansion a joints, lime exposed surfaces of walls being of a concrete composed of one part cement. three parts of fine limestone screenings and three parts of crushed lime-

