<doctype type="text">50	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



higher qualities. We hope the Council will keep in mind Wm. Morris' ideal of art as being made ''by the people, for the people, a joy to the maker and the user.''



On the 5th of April, the Mac Donald Engineering Building

<article title=" The Fire at McGillUniversity " author="">The Fire at McGillUniversity,	of McGill University, Montreal,



was almost entirely destroyed by fire. The building, which was designed by Mr. A. T. Taylor, f. R I. B. A., of Montreal. was solidly built of limestone externally, and of mill- construction internally The Workman Memorial, forming a wing of the same suite of buildings, was shut off by fire doors and was entirely saved. The Architectural Department, which was accommodated in the main building, was destroyed. The buildings and equipment were only moderately insured, and the loss to the University must be heavy indeed, as the equipment in many cases represented years of thought and labor on the part of the staff. It is stated that, owing to the fact :hat there was no vault in the building, a large accumulation of data. the results of tests and experiments made during many years, have been lost. The University had just been making a special appeal to the public, with a view to raising the sum of a million dollars to form a general endowment fund, on the ground that it was

of the	necessary for carrying

not in possession	means

on its work. The fire, therefore, comes as a heavy blow, and, when the members of the faculties assure their students that everything will go on next session as before they must be understood to be speaking with the courage of hope. It would indeed be a disgrace to Canada if that hope were to be disappointed. At time same time, a very considerable sum of money must somehow be raised if the progress of the Faculty of Applied Science is not to suffer a setback. The building just destroyed was already becoming too small for the ever-increasing numbers of students. The sum recoverable on insurance will go some way towards reinstating what was there before, but it wilt take much more than this to enable the University to cope with the ever increasing demand for scientific training.



Amid a flourish of trumpets

Labor in Politics.	Labor has organized itself into a party, and has entered the

arena of Provincial polities. On Good Friday, 600 labor men assembled in Toronto from all the industrial centres of the Province of Ontario, with the avowed purpose of organizing an Independent Labor Party, wherein might be consolidated the unorganized strength and influence of the working classes, that these might he utilized at election times for the benefit of the wage carners, and that friends of organized labor might find seats in the Legislatures and in time various Municipal Councils. By such aim ambitious movement is it intended in the future to guard the interests of Labor.

There can be no mistaking the earnestness, honesty and determination of the representatives present at the convention. That 600 men could be brought together for such a purpose is significant. That the conduct of some of those present should appear rather ludicrous, and the language at times unparliamentary, is perhaps less to be wondered at. Excitement

never departed from the discussions. In fact, the two sessions of the convention were mostly discussion, and. had it not been for President Rollo's continual pounding on time table with a heavy pine slab, discussion might have grown into discord. Over the question as to the position to be assigned to Socialism in the new Labor Party, much bitterness was apparcut. Nevertheless, by an overwhelming majority of 500 votes to 34, the entire Socialistic platform, which was proposed as the basis for the Labor party, was voted down, and that of the Dominion Trades and Labor Congress adopted. This seems to portend a lack of co-operation in the future between trade unionism and Socialism.

What the future history of tins new party will be it is difficult to say. Labor has met together, talked over its policy and apparently intends to try to carry out that policy. The chief incentive to this movement seems to be, to quote their own language, the impression that ''the presence in the Legislature and in Parliament of a number of representatives of the people, not attached to either of the old parties, would operate advantageously to the public interest by assuring consideration of public measures on their merits alone. without regard for party gain or loss.

view of this statement, Mr. Allan Studholme, the Labor representative from Hamilton, becomes aim interesting personality. His future conduct in the Legislature will be studied, as affording a possible hint of what may be expected of the party lie represents. His view of Mr. Whitney's policy to grant himself and his Cabinet aim increase in salary is a case in point. Mr. Studholme is reported to have declared himself opposed to any such movement. Labor views the work in the Legislature very much as a business proposition, and considers Mr. Whitney and his Ministers as mere servants of time people, doing a certain work for a certain wage. Moreover, Mr. Studholme's position may be taken as a type of what will obtain in the ease of future Labor representatives. Mr. Studholme's views seem to be pretty largely those of the class he represents, and little originality in legislation may lie looked for from him. Labor representatives, it is to be feared, will merely voice the sentiments of labor.

Here, then is the question. Can labor be relied upon to treat with sufficient magnanimity great public questions? There is a danger that the new party may he characterized by a selfishness which not only will endanger the welfare of 'the public generally but of time employer (If labor and of the manufacturers particularly. From its past history, the future conduct of Labor must he inferred, and it may not he too early to warn the employer and manufacturer to be alert and watchful of time new party, and even adopt measures to meet it in the political arena with an organization no less enthusiastic. The time appears to have come when employers must organize themselves as their employes are trying to do, not only from purely personal and self-protective motives, but also for the good of the country at large. The employer must not overlook the fact that Labor is becoming accustomed to obtaining what it asks for, amid he may tind it to his interest in the not far distant future to have in time Legislatures representatives who will be prepared and willing to voice his wishes and sec that he has justice done him.

