<doctype type="text">172	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



out in defining the phrase close corporation," the title of ''Architect" alone was to be protected. There would be no objection raised by the Institute to a man preparing plans for a building, or supervising the construction, provided that he did not call himself an architect.

An amendment was also proposed to clause three to remove the two year period during which an architect would have to practise before admission to the Institute, but Mr. Maurice Perrault pointed out that this would be an injustice to the Provinces of Quebec and Alberta, as by the wording of the clause those calling themselves architects, though probably contractors or draughtsmen, could be admitted at once in other provinces if they had been practising as architects at the time of the passing of the act, but in Quebec the same class of men would have to wait six months or more. The amendment was accordingly withdrawn.

Clause four, specifying what associations or individuals shall be admitted as corporate members of the Institute, was also accepted without change. There





























































<person>EDMUND BURKE</person>

1st Vice-President Institute of Architects of Canada.





are included all persons now members in good standing of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, the Ontario Association of Architects, the Alberta Association of Architects, the Manitoba Association of Architects, Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club and the Regina Architectural Club, also all persons being practising architects within the Dominion at the time of the coming into force of the act, who, within one year ·therefrom, apply for admission to and pay the entrance or admission fee and the subscription fee required under the by-laws of the Institution; all persons who have passed the prescribed

examination and have been licensed by the Institute members of British and foreign associations of equal standing with the Institute.

It was decided to omit from the act the sections with regard to examinations, etc., it being deemed advisable to have these embodied in the by-laws, which will be framed later.

Considerable discussion took place as to the wisdom of admitting as associate members those interested indirectly in architecture, but who were not practising architects. Several delegates opposed the suggestion,



















































MAURICE PERRAULT,

2nd Vice-President Institute of Architects of Canada.





contending that an associate should be one who had passed certain preliminary examinations with a view of becoming an architect.

The election of officers for the Institute resulted in the retention of those who had already served on the provisional board. They are:

President—A. F. Dunlop, Montreal.

Vice-presidents—Edmund Burke, Toronto; Maurice Perrault, Montreal; S. Frank Peters, Winnipeg.

Secretary—Alcide Chausse.

Treasurer—J. W. H. Watts, Ottawa.

Council—Win. H. Archer, Vancouver, B.C.; C. B.

Chapel, Charlottetown, P.E.I.; F. Deggendorfer, Edmonton, Alta.; David Ewart, Ottawa, Ont.; G. E.

Fairweather, St. John, N.B.; H. E. Gates, Halifax,

N.S.; H. B. Gordon, Toronto; W. W. Hilton, Regina,

Sask.; R. P.LeMay, Quebec, Que.; H. C. McBride,

London, Ont.; L. Munro, Hamilton, Ont.; R. B. Pratt,

Winnipeg; Eden Smith, Toronto, and Joseph Venne

Montreal:

A special vote of thinks was tendered Mr. Alcide Chausse, who, as provisional secretary, had worked indefatigably to bring the congress to a successful culmination.

Ottawa was decided on as the headquarters of the Association for the present, the choice being made in view of the. central position of the capital and the necessity for keeping in active touch with legislators until everything was put on a good running basis.

