<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	73



however, are not directly connected with the actual feasibility of erecting high structures. Such structures can be built. And they can also be extended as far downward into the earth as is financially desirable.

Already there have been successful experiments in this direction. The Criterion Theatre in London is an underground theatre. The floor of the Criterion Restaurant forms its ceiling. The theatre is entirely underneath the restaurant, and the restaurant is at the street level. This is an extreme case. But it might frequently be desirable to build a theatre with its first balcony at the street level. One advantage of this plan would be that in case of fire the people in the second balcony would have a better chance to get out. They would be one story nearer the ground.

Let us now return once more to our new building. While the basements are being excavated, the steel contractor is getting his columns erected and is starting the building on its upward course.

Meanwhile the other contracts have most of them been awarded. The brick, the , the terra cotta, the ornamental iron, the elevators, the boilers, the electric wiring, the rubber mats, everything goes under contract. In quarries and in foundries acid in factories the materials that are to go into our buildings are being dug and shaped and burned and moulded and rolled and pressed and stamped and tested and prepared for shipment. In addition to the engineering plans, we now have shop plans, which go to the places where the materials are being made ready. Each piece of steel or iron or granite or terra cotta arrives clearly marked or numbered, so that the workmen will know just where to put it. These workmen are























 



























 /





SUB-BASEMENT BEAMS ALL IN; STEEL OR CONCRETE BEAMS

BETWEEN SIDE WALL IN CELLAR.





employed by the contractors. The contractors have foremen who are in direct charge of the work. It is the business of the engineer constructor to watch the contractors and their foremen and their workmen and to see that they work harmoniously and that they finish their part of the job on schedule time. The engineer constructor tells them on what day they are each of them to begin and on what day they are each

of them to finish. He provides them with a schedule, showing at just what stage of progress they ought to arrive on certain successive days. The engineer constructor, therefore, has his representatives on the site of the building every day. lie is responsible to the owner for the accomplishment of the work, and the owner deals with the contractors through him.

In speaking of the engineer constructor in this way we are assuming that both the architect of the building and the consulting engineer are in the same business organization, or that they work together as a unit. If however, the consulting engineer and the architect come from separate offices, then both of them keep representatives on the job, and frequently visit it in person. Whether they are personally associated













 







 

















 









 







 







 











 





 







STEEL FRAME COMPLETED.







in the same firm or not they, after all, represent the same idea. That is, they furnish the technical skill and knowledge through which the owner works in paying his money to the contractors. The contractors do the work of erection and are paid fixed sums for their labor and material. The engineer constructor is usually paid a certain percentage on the total cost of the work. There are other financial methods under which buildings are constructed, but this is a quite

usual one.



.\.s the steel columns are going up it should be noticed that each one of them consists of a large number of different pieces of steel, all soundly riveted

together.



Piece by piece, then, the columns rise toward the required height of the building. As they go tip, the contractor erects steel girders between them at the floor levels and then erects steel beams between the girders. The floors, therefore, will lie supported by the beams and girders; the beams and girders will be supported by the steel columns; the steel columns will be supported by the concrete caisoon columns; and

