<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

CEMENT AND CONCRETE<article title=" CEMENT AND CONCRETE " author="">

	[NOTE. —Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers ]

<article title=" SOME CITY SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONCRETE BLOCKS " author="">

SOME CITY SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONCRETE BLOCKS.

Apropos of the regulations for concrete blocks laid down in the new Toronto building by-law, and quoted in another column of tins publication, it may he interesting to note the specifications recommended by some large building centres in the United States.

The building regulations of New York City in regard to all materials used as substitutes for brick or stone are extremely severe, requiring tests to be made on blocks the size and shape of an ordinary brick, which must show an average modulus or rupture of 450 lbs. in transverse test, average compression strength of 3,000 lbs., water absorption not over 15 per cent., loss of not more than 33 per cent. strength after freezing and thawing 20 times, and no disintegration after heating 1 hour to 1,700 degrees F. and plunging into cold water.

The City of Philadelphia for a time followed these requirements, but has lately modified them and provides that tests of hollow concrete blocks shall be made on full sized specimens. The most important requirements are: Blocks to be made of Portland cement, with not more than 5 parts sand and gravel or crushed rock ; hollow space to be not over per cent.. (20 and 25 per cent. in lower parts of high walls) maximum load, 111 lbs. per square inch of wall crushing strength. 1.000 lbs. per square inch of total surface of block, including opening ; absorption, freezing and fire tests as in New York requirements.

Concrete blocks in the Philadelphia market have shown compression strength of 1,200 to 1,600 lbs., absorption of about 5 per cent., little loss of strength on freezing, and have passed the fire test well.

The City of Newark, N. J., requires that blocks shall be not poorer than 1 to 4 they must he no more than 36 inches long and 10 inches high, and not less than 8 nor more than 16 inches wide the hollow spaces must not exceed one-third they must not be used until 30 days old, and must show a crushing strength of 1.500 lbs. per square inch.

<article title=" THE ASTHETIC IN EXTERNAL CONCRETE FINISH " author="">

THE ASTHETIC IN EXTERNAL CONCRETE FINISH.*

Heretofore it has been the common practice to veneer first—class concrete buildings with either brick or stone in order to conceal the concrete surface. which was deemed incapable of receiving an artistic surface. This mistaken impression has been largely due to the views of architects who imagined concrete out of place in anything but concealed foundation walls. Recently. however. this idea has been so modified that considerable attention is being given to the view that, like all legitimate and substantial structural materials, concrete, too, will prove to he susceptible of artistic treatment in design and that, moreover, in a fashion unusually simple. For the first time in the history of building materials we come to deal with a plastic material which can be moulded and modeled at will. Just here, however, arises the possibility of a danger into which those who undertake to treat cement surfaces may fall. Beauty in structural design is worthy of the name only when it has character. It must not be a servile copy of the style peculiar to sonic other material, but must express its own individuality. Particularly in the manufacture (if cement blocks, to which a rock face is usually given, is this danger possible. A flat, smooth face will always look well, but if a rock face is desired let it be produced by casting the block first and then pitching off the exposed surface with chisel and hammer, just as is done with stone. the clean fracture of the concrete thus exposed will be eminently effective and artistic, and will have all the merit that belongs to truthfulness. 

Plain concrete walls might in some eases lie effectively relieved by the introduction (if bands of decorated blocks, having some simple ornament moulded in the face. the frequent and constant repetition of a regular pattern is artistically had and ruins an effect which should, above everything, avoid studied regularity. Artificiality, imitation and misrepresentation are recognizable in such work at first glance.

Solid concrete walls have a great advantage over the block walls, in that they lend themselves much more readily to artistic treatment. This is especially true where they are used in suburban and country buildings, perhaps because of the touch of nature in the surroundings, which more nearly accords and harmonizes with the broach treatment that can lie so effectively employed in wall surfaces. Perhaps the best sources of inspiration that can be had for such treatment are to be found in the old Spanish missions of California, which, although not of concrete, nevertheless at once suggest its use, and above all are fine examples of the artistic value of broad wall surfaces relieved by exquisitely proportioned openings, judiciously spaced and not infrequently embellished by a moderate use of ornamentation. 

Assuming, then, that concrete surfaces should be as unbroken as possible, methods must be considered whereby, in more pretentious structures at least, the exposed face might be treated. A thin skin or crust of cement usually is found to cover the surface where the concrete was deposited wet and was well tamped. This crust may be removed, while still soft, by means of a stream of water applied with considerable force, or by stiff wire brushes. The particular value of this method of treatment is that it exhibits the material in its true nature and can certainly not he changed with any semblance of artificiality.

A simpler and less expensive method of securing

