<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	55

<article title=" MODERN STEEL BULDINGS " author="Ewen, John M.">

MODERN STEEL BULDINGS.*

	By Mr. John M. Ewen,	M. Am. Soc. C. E.



I shall speak to you this afternoon about modern steel buildings, and also about thc modern methods of business organization which arc necessary to the rapid and efficient construction of such buildings. 

The first big building in which the idea of a steel frome was used to any extent was the Home Insurance Building in Chicago. This building was erected in 1883. Only 24 years have passed since that time. You can see, therefore, that the whole revolution in modern building construction has been condensed into a space of less than a quarter of a century.

The principle first embodied in that building has completely changed the character of big building construction. But there has been a change not only in the buildings themselves, but in the methods of organizing the architects the engineers, the contractors, and the artisans who construct the buildings. Fifteen years

ago the erect ion of an eight or ten. story building was considered a good year's work. To-day a building twenty-five or thirty stories high can be erected within that same length of tune This change is due to improvements in methods of work. The modern construction engineer, engaged in the erection of big buildings, has a business organization which differs from the business organization of 25 years ago almost as much as the steel building itself differs from its solid-masonry predecessor

As an example of the rapidity with which a modern engineering force can work, we may take the Scars-Roebuck plant on the West Side of Chicago. This plant consists of four large buildings The largest in the group is ten stories high, four hundred feet wide and sixteen hundred feet long. The total cost of the plant, including all buildings, was more than four million dollars. Yet the whole job was (lone in eight months. In other words, building construction has not only changed, but accelerated. It is not only different in materials, but different in methods. It has not only more steel, but more speed.

And, by the way, the speed is just as important as the steel. When an old building is torn down in the heart of a great city, the owner loses his rents from the time when the old tenants are turned out to the time when the elevators begin to carry the new tenants to their new offices. Can the engineer-constructor have that new building ready iii ten months, or will it take him eleven? difference (if one month is important. There are office buildings which have a monthly rental roll of fifty thousand dollars. That sum represents to the owner the difference between an engineer constructor who can put up his building in ten months and the engineer constructor who cannot do it under eleven. It; is therefore absolutely necessary that the modern engineering force should be able to (10 its work, not only with the utmost care, but with the utmost rapidity. This means that the best type of engineer constructor, in order to be able to handle big building operations, must have in his own office, or else closely associated with him, all the different kinds (if talent which go into the construction Of the modern skyscraper. In other words, the modern engineer constructor is not an individual. He is an organization.

You will be able to see what I mean if I just name the different kinds of trained men who ought to be included in an engineering force competent to per-form a modern building operation with the smallest possible loss of time. An architect; t a civil engineer an electrical engineer; a mechanical engineer; a structural engineer ; a sanitary engineer; a fire protection engineer ; a purchasing agent a construction superintendent ; an operating engined an accountant. For the best work, it is no longer advisable to have all these men in separate offices of their own and to call them in from time to time in an advisory capacity to superintend their particular part of the work. It is



Paper read before the students of the School of Practical Science, Toronto.

better to bring them into what is, in effect, a single organization. They must work like the players in a football game, not as individuals, but as a team. And they must have a captain, whom they all trust and whom they all obey. He is responsible for every play in the whole game. He directs every movement. But lie must have men under him who know their own specialties, just as the left tackle in a football team knows how to be a left tackle, or the half-back knows how to be a half-back. The captain can then send that team down the field and have it under complete control, and know what every man is doing every second. The difference between the old style football of fifty years ago, when the players roamed all over  the field very much at their own sweet will, and the modern organized football, in which the whole team is under perfect control and moves hike one man, is the difference between the scattered individuals who used to collaborate in the construction of a building fifty years ago and the modern, compact engineering force which brings all those individuals together in one team and which can calculate, almost to a day, time exact time which it will consume in getting a certain piece of work done.

Let us begin now at the beginning, and see what happens from the time when a man decides that he wants a new building to the time when that building is handed over to him, ready to be used. We will suppose that our man comes to the office of an engineer constructor (if the kind we have been talking about. He explains that he has an old building which will have to be torn clown, and that he wants to replace it with a modern office building, on which he is willing to spend a certain amount of money. He naturally wants as much dome with that money as possible. The engineer constructor now proceeds to make a prophecy of that new building, complete in every detail. There are men in time office who can estimate time cost of every particular kind of timing that will be needed. Each man can make a pretty fairly accurate forecast of the expense that will be connected with that feature of the building in which he is particularly interested. The advantage of such a careful estimate of prospective cost is manifest. Time owner of time  building then knows exactly what kind of building lie can afford, and just about bow much money lie will have to spend. This is an advantage which in former days it was sometimes very difficult to secure.

There have been times when an architect would draw plans that were attractive to time owner and that promised a building of a kind that lie would enjoy possessing. These plans having been all made, and time dimensions and decorations of time building having been decided upon, the different contracts for steel, brick, granite etc would be awarded, one after the other. Everything would go on pretty well, till one day the architect would come to the owner and say ''Well, I am sorry, but that building will cost three hundred thousand dollars more than we thought it would.'' In fact there is one architect who always introduces some humor into time situation and says:

''Well, you'd better go out and take half a million dollars more away from somebody. We'll need it before we get through.'' These things are often quite annoying to the owner. They are avoided when architects and engineers work out the plans together, and when the architects can compare their ideas of what would lie desirable with the ideas of time engineers as to what is financially possible.

The exactness with which a financial estimate can be made was seen in time case of time new County Building for the City of Chicago. When the plans for that building were being drawn up it was shown that there was a certain appropriation for it, amid every effort was made to draw the plans in such a way as to make allowance for every possible detail and still keep within the appropriation. Finally, after the estimate had been made, and after time specifications for time steel contract, the granite contract and all other contracts had been printed, showing just

