<doctype type="text">76	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BUILDING MATERIALS FOR 19O7" author="">

BUILDING MATERIALS FOR 19O7.



At the opening of the building season for 1907 several problems of more than passing significance have to be faced. The season is already late. and building operations are in many districts almost a  month behind. In the cities this backward state of affairs is not so pronounced, although even in Toronto building construction is not what it would have been had more favorable weather prevailed. However, this is by 110 means a serious matter. The scarcity of material, particularly of lumber, presents a difficulty whose ultimate effect on the building industry for 1907 is problematical. Pine is scarcer than ever before in the building industry of Canada, and, at the prices which are being asked for it. builders are not in any anxiety to purchase. During this season several new departures in the way of substituting hitherto less popular woods than pine for structural purposes may be looked for. For the coarser grades of 1 pine, spruce is being substituted. and for flooring it will probably become ere long a popular wood. The time has passed when unlimited quantities of all classes of lumber caused contractors to look with disfavor on anything but pine for house construction. Now it is a question of what is available. Hemlock, a few years a go almost despised for anything hut the very roughest construction, is now at a premium, and the supply for the present season is very limited. The problem of securing suitable material for inside finish is also a pressing one, and before the present season closes, pine, which hitherto has been the staple finish. will have been replaced by

cheaper	substitutes,	in smaller dwelling houses at

least. Lath and shingles are in much the same condition. Pine lath is 110 longer in great demand;

spruce is rapidly taking its place. The shingle market at the present moment presents an aspect which is more than puzzling. There are practically 110 shingles in Ontario lumber yards, and inquiries for  them are coming in constantly from the smaller dealers to the city yards. The Western railroads have been merely dribbling shingles eastward for months past., and, as Ontario manufactures comparatively few shingles and no considerable quantity can be expected from Eastern Canada, owing to the strong call for the New Brunswick shingle from the Eastern States, the situation appears serious indeed. At the present moment there are orders with British Columbia dealers for 1.200 cars of shingles, and an average of only three ears a day is being shipped. Substitutes may, of course, he obtained. There is slate. much more expensive. to be sure. and various kinds of metallic roofing, but these have not yet come into general popularity. 

The stringency in the lumber market will inevitably turn men's attention to other materials which may advantageously be substituted for lumber. Among the first of these. of course, is concrete. The price of Portland cement, which advanced about 50 cents a barrel last summer, has, up to the present. remained stationary. hut prices throughout the country vary, arid in sonic instances the advance over last year is 50 per cent. This is due to the tremendous demand. To meet it new mills are being set up. and a number of established concerns are doubling and trebling their capacity.

With the increased muse of cement must also be considered the growing demand for crushed stone. In Toronto alone the consumption of crushed stone for  1905 was 68,000 tons, and, for 1906, 103,000 tons. It is expected that this year 130,000 tons will be a conservative estimate of the consumption. Last year the price was $1.20 per ton, and this year $1.25.

The use of galvanized iron is increasing enormously each year. Canada's consumption for last year being 12 1-2 per cent, over that of 1905. The value of Canada's importations is at least a million and a quarter dollars at point of shipment. which would be equal to more than a million amid a half delivered in Canada. The price of iron has advanced during the last year on an average of about 10 per cent., which does not more than cover the actual advance in the price of steel billets from which sheets are rolled. The price of galvanized sheets used for cornices, gutters, pipes, etc., remains about the same as last year. Tin plates used for fireproofing purposes, such as covering doors, lining elevator shafts, etc., are about the same as last year. Copper sheets, of which material there is not so much used as formerly are much higher than last year. the increase in price being about 50

per cent. Roofing felt advanced 12 1-2 per cent. this year. owing to the scarcity of wool rags, out of which felt is made. These rags are now being used for manufacturing of tweeds, etc., to a greater extent than ever before, thus forcing up the price. Dry felt, at the mills has gone up in the last year about 25 per cent., limit roofing pitch remains about the same. Slate is about 5 per cent. lower than last year. Asbestos, which has come into general use since the Chicago fire, is lower than last year by about 5 per cent. Paints and oils show a slight stiffening in price over last year. White lead and turpentine are the most interesting items to the painter just at present. The latter has been steadily rising year by year, and substitute after substitute has been put forth only to be rejected.



<article title=" MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE QUARTERLY MEETING " author="">

MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE QUARTERLY MEETING.

"Are contractors realizing as a whole how much of their future success depends on their attracting and retaining the better class of capable mechanics in this city?" was the pertinent question put by the secretary. Mr. J. H. Lauer, at the second quarterly general meeting of the Montreal Builders' Exchange. held recently. There was a good representative gathering of contractors in the various building lines, and the questions of current wages and a sufficient supply of labor for the needs of a brisk building season were discussed at length. Mr. Lauer, in his opening remarks, stated that the arrangement reached last year with the Bricklayers' Union No. 1, Quebec (the only incorporated union in this city), which had worked on the whole satisfactorily to booth employers and employes, had been renewed for the coming season, the wages to hue 50 cents per hour from May 1, no recognition of sympathetic strikes with other trades to be allowed, and aim disputes to be referred to joint arbitration board. In all other trades the principle of the "open shop" prevailed, a principle endorsed by this Exchange because founded upon reason and justice; the worker should be paid according to merit

