<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

		C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	PUBLISHERS.                                                         P.193



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX. — No	238.			OCTOBER, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLANS BY MESSES DARLING AND PEARSON, TORONTO, AWARDED SECOND PRIZE IN THE DOMINION GOVERNMENT



COMPETITION FOR THE PROPOSED DEPARTMENTAL AND JUSTICE BUILDINGS, OTTAWA.





CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	-	- 193-194

An Attractive Bungalow	-	 -		-		-		195

Real Estate Men Oppose	Building		Inspector		-	 -		195

Retaining the Sides of a Large			Excavation			-		196

German Industrial Palace	-	-	- 197

Architectural Ambition	-	- -	- 197

A Semi-Detached Concrete Dwelling House - -	198-199

The Late Richard Dinnis -	- -	- 200

Montreal Notes -	-	-	-	- -	200

The Ottawa Competition	-	-	-	-	201

The Late A. C. Barrett	-	-	-	- - 202

Objectionable Phases of Registration -	- -	202

Our Illustrations	-	-	-	- -	203

ILLUSTRATIONS	-	-	-	-	204-209

The Competitive Designs at Ottawa	-	-	210-211

	An Architectural Course for Toronto University	- 212-213

	Work of P.Q. . A. A. -	-	 -	- -			214

	Kew Beach Sewage System	- 	- 	- 			215-216 

	Expanded Metal - -	-			-		217

	Cement Construction Details	- 	- 	— 		- 	218 

	Danger of Rusty Iron in	Concrete	  .		-		219

	Employers' Combination not	Illegal	-	-		-	ix.-x.

	Book Review	-	- -	-	-	x.

	Electrical Delivery of Mail in Apartment Houses	-	xi.

	Lignine Carvings - -	-		-		-		xi.

	London Buildings Stereotyped		-		-		-	xii.

	Brick Tests in Vancouver, B. C.	-		-		-		xii.

	Pacific Coast Woods for Porch	Columns			-			xiii.

	Peace Palace Architect -	-		-		-		xiv.



Work is in progress in "The Architectural Annual," the official organ of the 

 <article title=" Work is in progress in "The Architectural Annual," " author="">          Architectural 

League of America, and prospects point to this year's issue being an unusually attractive number. Mr. J. P.	Hynes, president of the League, is looking after Canada's contribution to the volume and is sparing no effort to make it not the least attractive department of the publication. The cost of the volume, $2 for non-members and $1 for members of the League, is insignificant compared with the value of the work from a purely utilitarian point of view, as articles of considerable worth will be contributed by a number of the most prominent architects in America. while there will be more than one hundred reproductions of selected examples of hitherto unpublished work throughout the continent. The proceeds from the sale of the volume go to maintain a foreign traveling scholarship.



Heretofore Canada's	part in the architectural life of the continent has been small. With Mr. Hynes' elevation to the important position of President of the Architectural League of America, however, promise is given of a greater recognition of Canadian architectural talent and incidentally, it is hoped. there will also be imparted to the more youthful members of the craft in this country some incentive to compete for a few of the desirable opportunities for architectural education ill the American universities.

	

                                          The investigation into the collapse

 Structural Responsibility.<article title=" Structural Responsibility " author="">                       closely upon the demolition 

of the Reid Building in London, has turned pub-lie attention toward the evident possibilities of      deplorable	accidents	resulting	from carelessness or

inaccuracy on the part of designers or architects. In the ease of the London disaster the lack of a city building inspector and the non-existence of a building by-law were responsible. not only for the death and injury of a number of innocent victims, but have also given excuse for a very pardonable mistrust regarding the efficacy of public control over the undertaking by architects of hazardous methods of construction or alteration. The presence of a competent building inspector, it may well be presumed, will invariably act as a preventive in the adoption of questionable structural methods or in the exercise of undue haste.

The fact that an inspector was in charge of the Quebec bridge and failed to prevent the disaster may be taken as evidence that the existence of a building inspector is not by any means the summum bonum in structural work. The extent of the power with which we endow our building inspectors and their competency to exercise that power are the vital points. Moreover, it has transpired during the subsequent investigation into the cause of the Quebec bridge disaster that what may ultimately prove to be the direct cause of the collapse was detected by the inspector and warning to that effect given in ample time to have prevented the loss of life and possibly also the destruction of the bridge.

The fact remains, however, that there was a serious miscalculation made by the designers of the structure. an error which a board of arbiters, existing for the purpose of passing judgment upon just such important undertakings as the Quebec bridge would have recognized and corrected. Moreover, it has since become a matter of speculation as to whether or not a duplication of such a disaster might not be possible in the case of a large building. It seems reasonable to suppose that a young and comparatively inexperienced architect, licensed though he may be, and pronounced competent so far as an examining body of architects have been able to estimate his reliability, may still be unworthy of being entrusted with the erection of an important building. The time has come in the history of this country when there should be in existence a final board of arbiters, to whose competent criticism should be submitted plans for all important undertakings and whose approval of those plans should be secured before the actual structure is allowed to go under way. By that means the possibility of unfortunate accidents would be greatly lessened and the onus of responsibility distributed.

