<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

RETAINING THE SIDES OF A LARGE EXCAVATION

<article title=" RETAINING THE SIDES OF A LARGE EXCAVATION " author="">

The new six storey steel frame wholesale meat market building for Swift & Company at 153rd street and Brook avenue, New York, with its vaults under the 20 foot sidewalk on two sides, occupies a 65 x 135 foot area which has been excavated to a depth of about 21 feet through 10 feet of loose fill above a deep stratum of fine sand and quicksand, with abundance of ground water at a distance of about 12 feet below the surface. The site was originally the bed of a considerable stream, which has not yet wholly disappeared, making it necessary to deal not only with ordinary ground water, but with a considerable subterranean flow. This condition, together with the treacherous and irregular character of the soil, made the excavation difficult and necessitated careful provision for the exclusion of as much water as possible from the pit and for the safe support of the earth on the outside. The sheeting was therefore designed not only to resist a heavy earth pressure, but to act also as a core wall or dam to intercept the flow of underground water. The soil was so wet and soft that the bottom of the pit offered very little resistance to vertical or horizontal pressure and would not afford a reaction for ordinary spur braces, so that a special system was designed to resist the external pressure on the sheeting.

A row of pits about 6 feet square was sheeted down to a depth of 20 feet at equidistant points on a line parallel with a long side of the excavation and about 20 feet from it. A double line about 70 feet long of

12 x 12 inch horizontal timbers, laid close side by side and breaking joints, was supported on the cribs at one end of the lot just above the bottom of the main excavation, which at this time had been carried, by preliminary open work, to a depth of about 12 feet below the original surface. A narrow trench about 4 feet deep was dug just beyond the line of excavation on each of the long sides of the lot, from end to end, and in each of them was laid a continuous line of 12 x 12 inch rangers. Transverse 10 x 12 inch timbers about 20 feet long and 12 feet apart were laid in inclined position on one side of the intermediate horizontal girder and their ends were abutted and wedged against its vertical face and that of the outside ranger timber. Similar 12 x 12 inch inclined struts 45 feet long were laid in the same planes on the opposite side of the intermediate girder and wedged against the corresponding ranger. The long struts were made in two pieces, spliced with butt joints and with a scab, and all of them were connected at both ends to the horizontal timbers by top and bottom scab pieces. Shallow trenches were dug to receive them where necessary and care was taken to locate them so as to clear the steel columns and piers in the framework of the building.

On one side of the lot where the excavation reached a maximum of 21 1-2 feet depth, 3 x 10 inch tongue and groove sheeting 24 feet long was started on the outside of the ranger, and on the opposite side, where the excavation had a maximum depth of 14 feet, 2 x 10 inch tongue and groove piles 14 feet long were started simultaneously with them. As the piles were driven, excavation was carried on, care being taken to keep the bottom of the pit generally 2 or 3 feet

above the lower ends of the piles, thus reducing the tendency of the quicksand in the bottom to rise. After the excavation was deep enough to develop considerable external pressure on the sheeting and bring the inclined braces to a solid bearing against the intermediate girders, one end of the latter was braced against the transverse ranger laid across the lot on the line of excavation and the opposite end near the centre of the lot was temporarily secured by rakers, with their lower ends bearing against distributing timbers like grillages or dead men buried in the soil.

Sheet piles were driven across the outside face of the end ranger and the excavation carried on inside of them; the external pressure they received was largely transmitted to the intermediate horizontal girder. where part of it was absorbed by the end raker and the remainder was absorbed by friction with the struts or was directly transferred to the side sheeting by a pair of special struts in the planes of the regular transverse struts, which were inclined about 80 degrees from the direction of the main girder so that their vertex pointed toward the line of transverse sheeting. The ends of these struts were scabbed to the centre and side rangers like the regular transverse struts, and as any displacement in the centre ranger tended to force them into a transverse line, they acted like a toggle, setting themselves tighter and tighter as the pressure increased and transferring it to the side rangers. By this device the pressure against the end sheeting was successfully resisted until the lines of rangers, the transverse bracing, and the side sheeting had been placed the full length of the lot and the intermediate ranger was made to abut against the transverse ranger at the opposite end, thus transmitting the pressure from one end to the other and dispensing with the need of the inclined rakers.

As the excavation progressed a second system of rangers was set against the sheeting about 6 feet below the first and was braced through the intermediate ranger in the same way. Undue deflection in the transverse struts and in the intermediate ranger was prevented by the use of cribbing and vertical shores wherever necessary, which were changed to correspond with the increasing depth.

The sheet piles were driven by a No. 4 Ingersoll Sergeant steam drill with the rotating device removed and the drill replaced by a square steel bar. A flat steel bar was bent to form a rectangular frame and bolted to the drill enclosing the lower end. A rectangular hole through the flat end of this frame engaged a corresponding projection formed by a steel anvil block riveted to the upper side of a driving cap. The cap was simply a piece of a thick steel bar bent to a U-shape and fitted snugly on the top of the sheet pile. A pair of handles were bolted to opposite sides of the drill, so that it was easily kept engaged with the driving cap while striking it rapid blows that forced the pile down about 1 inch per minute when the point was 4 or 5 feet below the surface. An expenditure of $15 transformed the machine from a rock drill to a hammer which did very satisfactory service on this work and has been adopted by the contractors for similar work in other places. It is thought, however. that the efficiency of the hammer would be promoted

