<doctype type="text">200	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE LATE RICHARD DINNIS " author="">THE LATE RICHARD DINNIS.

In the person of Mr. Richard Dinnis, whose death occurred on October 14 last at his late residence, 132 University avenue, there passed away one of the oldest and best known contractors of Toronto. Although for the past four years Mr. Dinnis had been unable to exercise his former activity in business and social circles, he had, nevertheless, kept up his connection with the Toronto Builders' Exchange, particularly with the carpenters' section, through his son, who conducted the old business under the name of Richard Dinnis & Son, Limited.

The late Mr. Dinnis was born in Falmouth, England,

September 18, 1834. At an early age he was apprenticed to Messrs. Olver & Sons, well-known contractors in the west of England. At the same time he studied architecture, receiving at the end of the

usual seven years his indenture papers. Coming to Canada he engaged with Mr. Pim and Messrs. 

                                          THE LATE RICHARD DINNIS.





Worthington Bros., former Toronto contractors. In 1865 he went to Ohio and engaged in railroad building for two years. Returning to Toronto he executed contracts for many of the large buildings of the city. The original large building at the Exhibition grounds was built by him in 90 days. This necessitated the erection of a temporary planing mill, glazing shops, etc., on what is now lower Dufferin street. Later, in conjunction with his son, he completed in 45 days the large grand stand which was burnt down last fall. The last building upon which Mr. Dinnis was actively engaged was the City Hall, the contract for the carpenter work being executed by R. Dinnis & Son. The excellence of the interior fittings of the Council chamber and of the court rooms testify to the fine class of work always turned out by the late contractor.

Mr. Dinnis was formerly a lieutenant in the Sixth

Royals, a Past Master of Rehoboam Lodge A. F. & A.

M., and a Past District Deputy of the Grand Lodge.

The funeral took place on October 17, attended by

many members of the Builders' Exchange.



The value of the building operations in Ottawa will be equal to that of last year, although the number of such is smaller. The high prices of labor and material are said to be responsible for this condition.

MONTREAL NOTES.

The tightness of the money market has had a marked effect on building operations in the city during the month of September. No very great work was undertaken, and although 448 permits were issued during the month for new buildings, and 34 for alterations, as compared with 166 for new buildings and 41 for alterations in the corresponding month last year, there is a vast difference between the values represented by these figures. This year the new work was to cost only $449,676, while last year it was valued at $725,565; also the alterations for last month totalled only $44,957, as compared with $66,745 for the corresponding month last year.

A fine new Roman Catholic church has just been completed on the corner of St. James and Vinet streets. It is modern Renaissance in style, of a strongly French character, and very bold in detail. It has a frontage on St. James street of 92 feet and 172 feet on Vinet street, having seating capacity for 1,700 persons. The interior is one large auditorium, 80 feet wide by 160 feet in length and 80 feet high. The materials are Montreal limestone and steel, the interior being finished in stucco and quartered oak. The main entrance is from St. James street, with two minor entrances at the bases of the corner towers. The architects are Messrs. Marchand & Haskell.

The new fire station on Berthelet street is nearing completion, and, in spite -of many delays, will be one of the finest and most costly in the city. The building is entirely fireproof, three stories high, with a frontage of 72 feet and a depth of 100 feet. On the ground floor the carriage house occupies the centre, with stables in the rear for sixteen horses. On the west side is a private entrance to the station, and on the east side access is provided to the offices and fire alarm department, which occupies the whole of the third floor. The middle floor will contain the men's dormitories, the captain 's and officers rooms, a recreation room, 32 feet by 22 feet, bathrooms, etc. The building will be completed in about two months' time. Mr. Dunlop is the architect.

The Hon. W. A. Weir has forwarded $1,500 to the Council of Arts and Manufacture for the purpose of commencing classes at Lachute, St. Johns, Hunting-don and Victoriaville, and schools at these points will be opened at once. Other branches are to be opened by the end of October.



The Canadian Art, Mosaic & Tile Company are a new firm who are making a specialty of floors in marble and in Roman Mosaic and Venetian granolithic. They also are furnishing tiles for floors and wainscoting. The offices of the firm are in the Janes Building, 75 Yonge street, Toronto.



A street improvement has been ordered in Berlin which would cause American taxpayers some consternation. It is proposed to widen the narrowest part of Friederichstrasse 20 feet and replace the present houses and shops by an array of palaces, galleries and hotels, making the street one of the grand thoroughfares of the world. It is announced that four German banks and one British bank will finance the project, which is expected to cost $37,500,000.

