<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION " author="">

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.

Apropos of the legislation proposed by the Quebec Government respecting "Compensation to Workmen for Accidents," the following notes and suggestions have been submitted by Mr. J. H. Lauer, secretary of the Legislative Committee, Montreal

The proposal to assimilate our present laws as to "compensation," and to establish a systematic basis for estimating such compensation, in view of the widely diverging practice now in vogue, is one to be rather welcomed than opposed by employers; provided always that an honest effort be made to guarantee both employer and employ fair and just treatment. Our law now contains no rule to guide the court when it comes to consider the damage done. It is left entirely to the discretion and will of judge and jury; and judges and juries are apt to appreciate very differently the damage occasioned by accidents, according to their varying point of view or personal sympathies.

The jurisprudence of the Provincial courts has steadily tended towards the establishment of the principle of "professional risk," i.e., the employer is considered "technically" liable for any accident incurred in his employ. Thus as far back as 1886, one of the judges alludes to the steady tendency amongst Provincial judges to increase damages, and adds: "Philanthropists are never so charitable as when spending other people's money." On the other hand, the Supreme Court of Canada has, by the famous 1901 judgment, maintained the doctrine of "faute delictuelle," i.e., that a plaintiff in actions for damages must establish the employer's "fault" or "contributory negligence." In consequence of this decision, such actions are frequently taken for less than $2,000 to avoid the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, and to confine the case entirely to the Quebec tribunals, which decline to follow the above decision.

The following table, compiled from actual statistics of accidents furnished by the experience of the great industrial countries of Europe (France, Belgium and Germany), will prove that less than 50 per cent. of risks are "professional," that is, inherent in the actual work or manufacture

19 per cent of accidents due to fault of the employer.

25 per cent. of accidents due to fault of the workmen.

44 per cent. of accidents due to "professional" risk (i.e., fortuitous event).

12 per cent. of accidents due to unknown cause or to a third party.



100 accidents.



The Imperial German report adds the significant remark :—' ' The employer cannot be held responsible (i.e., actually in fault) in 75 per cent. of accidents arising.''

The new law proposed by the Hon. H. Archambault, the principle of which is still further endorsed by Hon. W. A. Weir and Mr. J. W. Stephens, M.L.A., establishes this very principle of "faute professionnelle'' (i.e.,. the employer's technical" liability) as the law of this province for accidents. The following are the principal features in which the subjoined recommendations or amendments are urged

1. Procedure.—The new bill apparently still permits proceedings or appeals to he taken at common law under the Civil rode.

A. In this respect it may with reason be submitted, that while employers would welcome a measure which would mean simplified procedure, diminution of law costs, and a practical basis for estimating compensation which shall automatically correspond with the earning capacity of the victim, the relief would be purely illusory if they were still open to attack by way of the Civil Code. The new Act would simply remain a dead letter.

2. Fixed basis for compensation under this Act. Damages to be computed on 60 p.c. of the workman's average annual wages (or the wages current at the time for such class of work) up to an annual total of $500, adding one-fourth part of any wages in excess of $500. This is equivalent to the scale adopted by the leading European industrial countries, and forms a reasonable automatic basis for computing the weekly allowances for "temporary incapacity" through accident.

3. Definition and duration of "incapacity through accident." The new bill is too indefinite and assigns no time limit; a wide loophole would be created for a "life-long pension" thereby.

C. On the automatic basis created by Sec. 2 (above, we suggest

(a)	"Temporary" total incapacity limited to 100 weeks' proportion of allowance;

(b)	"Temporary" partial incapacity limited to 26 weeks, and one-half of compensation in the proportion named by Sec. 2.

(c)	"Permanent" total incapacity to be defined as :—Loss of life; or of both hands, or of both feet, or both eyes; or of one hand and one foot; and to be entitled to the full capital sum specified in Sec. 4 (below) one-half of such capital sum to be awarded for loss of either one foot, one hand, or one eye. Further that a complete schedule of allowances for specific surgical operations be embodied in the bill, based upon the proportions of capital sum as fixed by the scale adopted by chartered Canadian accident insurance companies.

4. The proposal to entitle all relatives of victims in case of death to a life annuity based upon the earning capacity of 60 per cent, as given in Sec. 2 by the Act is unjust to the employer in the case of young victims, and to the employer in the case of elder victims.

D. We suggest that the law just adopted by the Imperial Parliament, and effective since 1st July, 1907, be taken as the basis of the capital sum; namely, the equivalent of three years' average wages at time of accident. Where the compensation is thus automatically fixed by law, all appeals and expensive legislation should be excluded.

Finally, as decided by the Imperial Act just quoted, our employers should insist that the new "Compensation" Act shall apply to all classes of the community who work for wages (including agricultural and domestic help) and not merely to "industrial" employs.

It stands to reason that an Act such as this will entail compulsory accident insurance, besides largely increasing the rates of premium. This additional cost will necessarily be added by contractors and manufacturers to their building and factory costs, and in the end falls upon the public, in other wards mainly upon these very workmen who will foot the bill in the shape of increased cost of rent, clothing and utensils. Economic laws, like water, find their own level at last.

