<doctype type="text">



<article title=" CANADIAN PLUMBER " author="">



 CANADIAN PLUMBER 

HEATING AND LIGHTING ENGINEER

<article title=" HEATING AND LIGHTING ENGINEER " author="">

[NOTE. —Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers.]

<article title=" THE SEPTIC TANK." author="">

THE SEPTIC TANK.

One of the most satisfactory methods for sewage disposal in small towns is that which makes use of the septic tank. This tank is constructed of brick or stone, well bedded in cement to prevent leakage, and is built at such a level as to allow the discharge pipe D, which is of glazed tiles four inches in diameter, to cave it at a depth of not more than twelve inches beneath the surface of thc earth. Where the surrounding land is level, this tank may be located close to the building, where, if covered with earth and sodded over, it will not cause inconvenience. If more convenient, it may bc placed any distance from the house, and the inlet pipe E laid along a mound or ridge of earth, and covered with earth to protect it from the frost; this pipe must under any circumstances have a slight continuous fall from the building, and must enter the tank at the top as shown. If, however, there is a considerable slope to the land, the tank may be buried beneath the surface, it being borne in mind that the branches from pipe D, which may be taken off at any distance from the tank, must not be more than twelve inches beneath the surface and must be perfectly level. From pipe D about every two feet— ordinary T fitting will just give the desired length— are run branches of field tiles (Fig. 2) four inches in diameter, the total contents of which should be equal to the amount of water which will be discharged at each operation of the valve, and allowing thirteen tiles to every cubic foot to be discharged, the number required will be readily found. The bend connecting the tank to thc system of sub-surface tiles should be of iron, solidly cemented into the bottom of the tank to allow of the caulking in of the valve with Lead. This

























valve, manufactured by Somerville, Limited, Toronto, can be set at any level, will open and close automatically. It overcomes the only objection ever made to the septic tank system, viz., that when the emptying of the tank depended upon a servant or some member of the family to pull a plug at regular intervals, replacing it when all the liquid had escaped, it was sometimes forgotten and the tank overflowing caused the pipe between it and the house to fill up, thereby causing a great deal of annoyance and expense.

It will be noticed that a dividing wall is built in the center of the tank to the height of about two inches from the top, the latter space being left for the free passage of fresh air. In this partition is built overflow F, the lower end of which should be "caged" with wire netting, three-quarter inch mesh, to prevent paper, etc., from passing through with the water. Pipe J permits the entry of fresh air, which passes over the sewage and up through thc soil pipe E to the roof.

The operation of the tank is as follows :—All thc



























sewage from the building enters the tank through pipe E, filling compartment No. 1, the solids being compelled to float by the gases generated underneath. When this compartment is filled the liquid overflows through F into compartment No. 2, the valve C of which is closed. When, however, the liquid rises to the LEVEL at which float H is set, the valve opens, discharging the whole contents of compartment No. 2, be it fifty or five thousand gallons, into the system subsurface tiles, through which it soaks into the earth, there to be taken care of by nature as already explained.

As the valve closes automatically when the tank is nearly empty, it will be seen that sufficient time will be given for that which has just been discharged to soak away before the tank fills again, and the operation is repeated.

A word respecting the solid portion of the sewage retained in compartment No. 1. The value of the system will be appreciated when it is stated that so thorough is the action of the millions of bacteria on this body, causing the almost immediate disintegration and decomposition of everything entering the tank, that tanks, when opened after a year's use, and into which the sewage from buildings containing many inmates was emptied, were found to contain not more than two or three pails full of a kind of earthy substance, from which scarcely any odor was perceptible. It must be borne in mind, of course, that no disinfectants are necessary with this system, and nothing in the shape of chemicals should be allowed to enter the tank if the life of the bacteria. which is so essential to its success, is to be preserved.

