<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	183



devoted to storage purposes. and for the distribution of the pipes, ducts, etc., required throughout t he building.

'' The first floor is devoted to the Supreme Court and the Exchequer Court together her with their dependencies. a and t he library. it will be noted that 

he accommodation provided is almost identically the same as that required by your conditions viz., 24,-600 square with the addition of a limited amount of space for future growth h and expansion.

On the second floor is locator the Railway Com missioners and their dependencies all in accordance with your requirements of 16,000 square feet, with a very moderate amount of space avail able for expansion It is felt that due provision should be made in this respect to a limited extent.

'' it will lie noted that every room, corridor. etc.. in both buildings is amply anti well lighted. the aim has been to pro duce first a rid foremost, buildings [hat would fulfil their practical requirements in the best possible manner r. a ad in no case h as convenience 

light been sacrificed to se cure air artificial architectural effect

The justice Building has practically hut one large court yard as the judges ' passages and the library



passage are in the nature of cloisters, not interfering in any was with Ire circulation of air and light. Driveways are provided that access is had to all port ions of the court yards.

The Depart mental Building has been along wit h the Justice Building placed on the larger plot if ground It is felt that there is ample room for both  buildings here, and as a mat t or of convenience, it is a distinct advantage to be in closer touch Wit h the

existing	a Parliament	and department	blocks than if

tire new	department Building had been placed of the smaller plot where it would have the additional disadvantage of being obscured by the Printing Bureau 

An other strong point in favor of this location is the great practical advantage of having one power

plant to serve both buildings located as it is midway between the two. w here the heat t. noise arid dust incident to its operation will he least objectionable and still lie at the most convenient point for the distribution of heat. light, power. etc. It will be noted that the coal is delivered and trumped through pockets in the roof of the foul storage chamber, without any n handling, when it is their available for the boilers on the same level. Tine boiler and engine house are lofty and well lighted both win lows and skylights.

the Depart mental building it is fell. needs but a scant description as the Ira wings clearly indicate it as a practical example of a monumental office building embodying all t lie features that would enter into tire best type of a modern commercial structure of this type.

It will be noted that the Park elevation shows hut four storeys in height - while the Sussex street elevation accommodate six storeys the building is thus accommodated to the inequalities of the ground to [Ire best advantage arid at I he snare time provides an elevation on tire Park front that dies nit overpower or dominate the Justice Building.

The bridge level, in order not to ruin perspective from Spark street and Park grounds. is kept at grade fl 6. It would lie a strain to anyone to walk up steps from grade 11 to 1 53.6. so easy ramps are introduced thus permitting of easy ascent and a treatment which avoids  the thread—like result which a straight line would produce, if carried from the hill on which  the Parliament Buildings rest to t lie Justice Building opposite.

it is felt that the acceptance of climatic conditions is a most essential feature which demands flat roofs drained in the centre. as icing the best type.

In the design a type of Gothic architecture has hi ii adopted freely and individually  treated which permits of lighting the rooms of offices in a manner equal to the best I traditions of practical architecture for this reason tire perpendicular and decorative styles have been avoided as not being practicable, especially for the Departmental Building The now buildings will thus be in harmony with the  existing

	Grounds	The Justice	building is	accentuated 



by a formal treatment, bring looted on the axis of the pavilion of the Parliament Building. while opposite the new Department Building freer and a more naturalistic treatment is observed as being more in accord with the existing landscape thus from the ground one would not find the effect of the Justice Building injured by t lie departmental Building, being in places higher



the inn tier o f convenience	has been carefully considered. a reference to the paths will demonstrate this for both vernacular and pedestrian traffic.

A full recognition of the bank of the ravine is considered as very import ant the formal planting if the banks by poplars as shown is advocated as mint interfering with the vista, but recognizing the bank of the  ravine and the gradual change from the formal to the naturalistic treatment.

 in conclusion we may say that it has been the aim of t he anothers of this design to produce a group if buildings that Shall I supplement and still be a part if the noble gm-cup on Parliament Hill connected to them in a formal and serviceable manner the mild and the new forming  as it were mimic grand connected design that t might have been planed at one time by a master

mind 



Tin- group will he  impressive as set-mm from any point of view varied only as the Gothic style can be varied but without restlessness, rich without ostentation or undue ornamentation nit with simple masses logical composition - and the purpose of the plan an mistakable a general character of distinction and refinement has been sought that shall live and lie inn added attraction for the future 





It is seldom that a public gift has met with more general appreciation than has Canada's contribution

	to the	Queen	Victoria	Memorial	at	Buckingham



Palace of the beautiful gates recently put in position there. In the scheme if I lie Queen Victoria memorial they form one of 11w five putlets from the circle lion'  known as the Queen's Gardens, in the center of which will stand Brook's statue of the Queen.

