<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	51

<article title=" RECENT AMENDMENTS TO THE TORONTO BUILDING BY-LAW " author="">

RECENT AMENDMENTS TO THE TORONTO BUILDING BY-LAW.

Any attempt to put a stop to the appalling losses of life and property from fires breaking out in the congested districts of our great modern cities is undoubtedly a most commendable project, and apparently Toronto's lesson of three years ago has not been forgotten in the newly amended by-law, regulating the erection and providing for the safety of buildings. Differences of opinion very naturally may arise regarding the requirements for reinforcing concrete or concerning the relative strengths of materials, but in these respects expert opinion seems fairly agreed that the instructions and formulae in the new by-law can be relied upon. In one respect, however, it seems to be the general impression that the by-law as it stands will bear still further alteration. We refer particularly to thc third section of article four, in which reference is made to the powers vested in the Inspector of Buildings with regard to the granting of permits, and which reads as follows: " When such applications, drawings and specifications conform to this by-law, the said Inspector of Buildings shall certify and approve of the same, and the permit there-for shall be issued by him. Provided that the said Inspector, who is hereby appointed for this purpose, may permit such deviation from the by-laws regulating the erection of building, as in his opinion will afford proper and safe construction under the circumstances.''

It is this latter clause of the article to which exception has been taken. How essential it is to have a law which can be properly interpreted, both by architects in preparing their plans, and by the City Architect, who uses it as his test in guarding the safety of the public, needs no discussion here. Nevertheless, in this article of the by-law we have practically no limit set to the discretionary powers which the City Architect may in certain cases exercise. In the case of the erection of new buildings, no serious departure will be allowed from the text of the by-law, but it is difficult to imagine within what limits the phrase ''deviation from the by-law'' may be defined. Much may depend upon the personal relations existing between the City Architect and the particular architect submitting plans, and a fruitful field is opened for personal differences and errors in judgment. It has been contended by the framers of the by-law that they found it impossible to cover all possible cases that might arise in connection with the granting of permits, without giving to the Inspector of Buildings wide discretionary powers.

While admitting the validity of this statement, the C( combined committee, appointed by the Architects, Engineers, the Board of Trade, the Manufacturers' Association and the Builders' Exchange of the city, nevertheless, made a recommendation, based upon the building code, compiled by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, of New York, This recommendation was to the effect that the City Architect should have power to vary or modify any of the provisions of this by-law or any rule or regulation of the Department of Buildings, relating to the construction, alteration or removal of any building or structure erected or to be erected within the City of Toronto where there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of this by-law, so that the spirit of this by-law shall be observed and public safety secured and substantial justice done; but no such variation or modification shall be granted or allowed unless the particulars of each application and of the decision of the Commissioner thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Department, and opportunity shall have been given adjoining property owners to enter protest." Furthermore, the recommendation provides for an opportunity of appeal against a refusal of permit by the City Architect to a Board of Arbitration consisting of two civil engineers and an architect, who should have no interest in the question at issue. This recommendation was, however, rejected in toto by the framers of the by-law.

Instances have recently been pointed out where in times past mistakes have been made in Toronto building construction which would have been rendered impossible had there been in existence such a Board of Arbitration as has been recommended, and yet today these buildings remain in our congested districts, a standing menace to public safety.

The present by-law (page 54, article 53) says that ''public halls in which the seating capacity exceeds 1,000 must be of fireproof construction throughout, except the wood floor boards and the sleepers to which they are fastened." On page 12, article 16, we also read: "All buildings erected or altered so as to exceed seventy feet in height shall be of fireproof construction.'' In this latter article no exception whatever is made as to floors. Obviously, some difficulty might be excusable in the manner of reconciling the interpretation of these two rather contradictory articles, and it is not right to give our City Architect such broad discretionary powers as will enable Win to veto the by-law, and, however unwittingly, create conditions that might prove hazardous to an entire neighborhood.

That too much attention cannot be given to this question of fireproof building construction is evidenced by the strenuous efforts being made by the National Board of Fire Underwriters of New York to have adequate building laws enacted in towns and cities throughout the United States; and in Canada, with our rapidly enlarging city populations, we may well profit by the principles they are advocating.

The aggregate fire loss in the United States for the years 1901 to 1905, inclusive, was $866,617,705, an average yearly loss of nearly $175,000,000, or over $2 per capita. Contrasted with this, the European fire loss is only 33 cents per capita. Enquiry as to the cause of the difference elicits the information that in all European cities great losses are impossible, because stone and brick buildings are insisted on. From Vienna comes a report, saying that no ease is on record in that city where a conflagration has extended beyond the building in which it originated, and, moreover, scarcely any eases are known where a fire extended beyond the floor on which it started. Similar conditions prevail also in other great European cities. the United States is waking up to time fact that there is nothing in which American municipal governments make so unfavorable a showing in comparison with those of European cities as in all that relates to construction of buildings and the enforcement of regulations which minimize the danger of losses of life and property by fire.

That the new by-law goes far to protect Toronto against a repetition of the disaster of 1904 must be readily admitted. Also in some minor particulars the small builder is saved some unnecessary outlay, as in time building of chimneys on brackets, if there is not more than 12 feet of brickwork. Again, the old bylaw called for a staggered wall between each pair of houses that were built together, whereas the new  considers the ordinary partition sufficient, and thus cuts the cost in two. In the provisions for shingle roofs, there will also be a lessening in cost.

Formerly

two plies of 10 pound asbestos had to be placed under the shingles, now a single ply of 14-pound is all that is required. This applies also where the upper walls are covered with shingles, as ill small houses or summer homes.

The dimensions laid down for cast iron columns are said by some local experts to be scarcely large enough, the recommendations having been based upon obsolete formulae. On the other hand, the requirements for steel seem to be placed too low, the New York code specifying a maximum stress of 14,620 pounds per square inch, instead of 12,000, as stated in the by-law. The requirements for wooden columns are also said to be too low, time New York code specifying a stress of two or three times as great for columns of

