<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



employed in mill construction are 8 x 8 inches, spaced 3 feet centre to centre. The beams carrying joists are 12 x 14 inches and have a span of 12 feet. The columns are 12 x 12 inches and 10 x 10 inches in both cases. This is done both for the securing of ample strength in case of damage by trucking and also because building laws will not allow columns in this class of buildings with a sectional area less than 100 square inches.

The Toronto by-law indicates that the main difference between mill and slow-burning construction is that the floors in the latter are of two thicknesses with water and fireproof paper between. This extra flooring is put in for three reasons: In the first place, it is made heavy and tight so that fire has but little chance to damage it; secondly, the paper is put between the floors so that there will 'be no airholes between the flooring in case of shrinkage, and also that, in case of fire above, the water will not run through so easily, but will run out of the holes in the wall, as

portion of the building down or out of place, as would be the case with column D, if F and G were to fall and act as a lever at E. This is not the case in the "mill construction" sketch, for in such construction any part of a floor and beams could burn and fall and yet not disturb any other part of the structure.

Figs. 1 and 4 show part of a wall with joists in place. Figs. 2 and 5 show parts of columns, cross-sectional parts of beams, and longitudinal parts of joists in place. Figs. 3 and 6 show parts of columns longitudinal parts of beams and cross-sectional parts of joists in place. In "mill construction "the first or heavy floor is put down diagonally to the walls of the building, while the upper or finished floor is laid at right angles to the joists.

The reason for taking 100 pounds for the live load or load per square foot of area which might be put upon the floor is the least the building laws will generally permit. In other cases, and for concentrated loads,' these laws demand special construction, some-

































































New ZEALAND SUMMER COTTAGE.

<article title=" New ZEALAND SUMMER COTTAGE " author="">

shown at A. The top floor is usually birch or maple, having exceptional wearing qualities and serving to protect the heavy flooring. The floor must also be made heavy in order to carry the superimposed load, as the joists are farther apart in "mill" and "slowburning" construction than in "ordinary."

From the sketches (reproduced from "The Wood' worker") may be seen some of the more marked differences between the two. In "ordinary construction," dust can lodge in many places, as at b and c, but in "mill construction" there is absolutely no place for dust to lodge at the ceilings. The timbers are all large, so that they will not ignite easily in case of fire; and should they burn, they would be a long time in falling. The building laws in most cities require that floor joists for "mill construction" must be at least 72 square inches in sectional area.

It will also be noticed that there is a very marked difference in construction in the sketches. In "ordinary construction," if floor beams burn and fall with the weight upon them, they, as a rule, pull some other

times as high as 450 pounds per square foot carrying capacity being the minimum.



A NEW ZEALAND SUMMER COTTAGE.

The illustration on this page shows a cosy little summer cottage at Island Bay, Wellington, N.Z. We reproduce it not only as an architectural model from that far-off land, but also because it possesses features which must commend it to Canadian architects and builders who undertake work of a similar nature.

It will be at once noticed that the design of this cottage is both unique and handsome. But a closer study will reveal the fact that the construction is as inexpensive as it is attractive. In fact, the whole purpose of a summer residence is well served, at a very moderate cost.

Additional interest will attach to this cottage when it is known that the metal shingles and siding were manufactured by a Canadian firm—the Metal Shingle. & Siding Company, Limited, of Preston,. Montreal and Toronto.

