<doctype type="text">



from the roots and barks of certain trees; blue-black from the charcoal of the vine chalk; and Turkey red comes from the root of the madder plant found in Hindustan. Indian ink is made from burned camphor by the Chinese.



A London subscriber asks for the best method of removing stains from an oak floor.

Answer A good bleaching agent is a clear solution of one pound of chloride of lime and 2 ounces of soda crystals in one gallon of water. The stains should be kept constantly saturated with the solution for a few hours, then washed with weak sulphurous acid and finally with clear water.

<article title=" IMPORTANT LEGISLATION " author="">

IMPORTANT LEGISLATION.

There are at present before the Dominion Parliament and the Senate several Bills of the utmost importance to the builders and contractors of this country.

A most important amendment will likely be made to the law referring to the compulsory arbitration in certain trade disputes. The Bill, which has already been read once, is, in part, as follows

5. Wherever any dispute exits between an employer and any of his employees, and the parties thereto are unable to adjust it without having recourse to a lockout or strike, either of the parties to the dispute may make application to the Minister for the appointment of a Board of Conciliation, to which Board the dispute may be referred under the Act.

57-61.	Strikes and lockouts (in the industries as above limited) prior to and pending a reference to the duly constituted Arbitration Board, are declared illegal, under heavy penalties.

62.	If an employer dismisses from his employment any employee by reason merely of the fact that the employee is or is about to become. a member of a trade union, such employer shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty dollars for each employee so dismissed.

63. If an employee goes on strike by reason merely of the fact that his employer has employed or is about to employ some person not a member of a trade union, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty dollars.

The Montreal Builders' Exchange endorse this Bill, but suggest that its scope be not confined to the few industries specified, but be extended to include building and general industries where such disputes contemplated by the Bill are continually arising, and, in their opinion, the reference to the Minister should not be optional but compulsory. Hence the word ''may in section 5 should be amended to ''shall.''

A Bill is now before the Dominion Senate, the intention of which is to prevent the foreign agents and delegates of trades unions from acting on Conciliation Boards under the Conciliation Act, 1900, and to make it a criminal offence for foreigners to interfere in any difference between employees and employers.

The Bill is as follows

1. Paragraph (3) of sub-section 1 of section 4 of The Conciliation Act, 1900, is hereby amended by adding thereto, after the word "conciliation," in the fifth line thereof, the words "but no person who is not a citizen of Canada and a British. subject shall be so appointed."

2. The following section is hereby added to the

said Act, immediately after section 4, as section 4a thereof

"4a. Everyone is guilty of an offence and liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $100, who, not being a citizen of Canada and a British subject, in any way intervenes in a difference, whether existing or apprehended, between an employer or any class of employers and workmen or between different classes of workmen."

The above amendments are endorsed by both the Montreal Builders' Exchange and the Canadian Manufacturers' Association.

The trades unions of Canada are endeavoring to have passed a Bill whereby all workmen and laborers engaged in work for the Government, whether under contract or by day labor, shall only be required to work eight hours per day. The. Canadian Manufacturers' Association, the Montreal Builders' Exchange and many individuals are strongly opposed to this Bill, which is thought to be the commencement of the compulsory eight-hour day throughout Canada.

The Bill is as follows

1.	Every contract to which the Government of Canada is a party which may involve the employment of laborers, workmen or mechanics, shall contain a stipulation that no laborer, workman or mechanic in the employ of the contractor, or sub-contractor, or other persons doing or contracting to do the whole or a part of the work contemplated by the contract, shall be permitted or required to work more than eight hours in any one calendar day, except in cases of extraordinary emergency caused by fire, flood or danger to life or property.

2.	Every such contract hereafter made shall contain a provision that unless the person or corporation making or performing it complies with the provisions of this Act, the contract shall be void and the person or corporation shall not be entitled to receive any sum, nor shall any officer, agent or employee of the Government of Canada pay or authorize payment from the funds under his charge or control to the person or corporation for work done upon or in connection with the contract which in its form or manner of performance violates the provisions of this Act.

3.	This Act shall apply to work undertaken by the Government of Canada by day labor.



<article title=" NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS' EXCHANGES " author="">

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS' EXCHANGES.

At the present time, when the formation of a national or provincial association of Builders' Exchanges in Canada is being advocated, the fact may be noted that the American Exchanges have organized as the National Association of Builders' Exchanges.

The organization meeting was held on January 15th at Scranton, Pa., when delegates were present from several States. The proceedings of the meeting consisted of merely the election of officers and other work of a preliminary nature. The following officers were elected President, E. S. Williams, Scranton, Pa.; 1st Vice-President, W. N. Hagy, San Antonio, Tex.; 2nd Vice-President, J. M. Phillips, Wilmington, Del.; Secretary-Treasurer, A. E. Pearson, Henry street, Orange, N. J. B. Griffen, Pittston, Pa., was elected to act with the other officers as the Executive Committee.

