<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	77



and ability, and not according to an artificial uniform scale which destroyed all personal ambition and only benefited the incapable workman.

In spite of much misrepresentation and many hard knocks aimed at it by representatives or organized labor, the Builder's Exchange was not the enemy of the best principles of unionism; it had combatted in the past, and would endeavor to oppose in the future, only those despotic tendencies of present-day unionism which aimed at a monopoly of the labor market and denied the right to earn a living to any but its own members here was a "combination in restraint of trade'' with a vengeance.

It was for this reason that the Exchange had made a protest recently to the City Council on the subject of the award by the Road Committee of the season's contract for curbstones to the highest tenderer, who pledged himself to exclusive union labor, instead of to the lowest, who ran an open shop without discrimination against any class of worker Such an award was neither in the interests of justice nor of rate-payers.

In comparing the rates of wages paid here and in other cities, the secretary Pointed out that while conditions had improved with the Master Plasterers and Carpenters, there were other trades, notably those of plumbing, painting and electrical mechanics, where the wages were altogether too cheap as compared with any city of similar size. We were losing our best mechanics for two main reasons the restrictions placed upon apprentices by the unions and the attraction of higher wages elsewhere. He felt convinced that if, year l)y year, as cost of living increased, the  employers would meet their employes in friendly conference, and, where the trade warranted it. would voluntarily increase the scale of wages in proportion without waiting to have every concession wrung from them by union pressure, they would both gain the good-will and confidence of their workmen and destroy the tyrannical side of unionism by rendering it unnecessary.

Mr. W. E. Ramsay, of the Pedlar Roofing Company, spoke earnestly in favor of the 01(1 indenture system, by which lads should be bound by their parents for four to six years at a. graded scale of wages. to be really taught a trade by actual personal interest taken in them by the employer, and not left as at present to pick up airy scraps of knowledge they may chance to run across. He was opposed to all artificial interference with apprentices by unions, as the country was starving for capable mechanics. After some remarks agreeing in the main with the foregoing statements by Messrs. Pause, Fernald, Watson, Walsh and Thibeault, the following resolution, drafted by the secretary, was proposed by Mr. Ramsay, seconded by Mr. Arcand and carried unanimously:-That this special general meeting of the Builder's

Exchange of Montreal desires to convey to the Hon. Rodolphe Lemieux its congratulations on behalf of the successful intervention made by the Department of Labor in arresting the recent incipient strike in connection with the iron and steel industry in Nova Scotia, and on its prospective settlement of industrial trouble in the coal mines in Fernie, B.C., and the West; which prompt action of his Department assures a reasonable hope that violent dissensions between

labor and capital in large public utilities will in future be greatly mitigated, if not entirely obviated, through the adoption by Parliament of the special legislation introduced during the present session by the lion. the Minister of Labor for compulsory enquiry into all labor disputes concerning such public utilities.



<article title=" TIN CLAD FIRE PROOF DOORS " author="">

TIN CLAD FIRE PROOF DOORS.

The new departure has been taken by a number of

prominent	architects	Toronto and	Montreal of

placing the fireproof tin clad doors in the sheet metal workers' specification. Heretofore these invariably appeared in the carpenter's specification. The carpenter built the doors himself, and, not being in touch or familiar with the requirements of the fire underwriters, it frequently happened that he had friction  with these gentlemen, as the cores were not built strictly to their requirements. Then he had to have a tinsmith cover them, being obliged, of course, to













































 











SKETCH BY E. STANLEY MITTON.







buy the hardware from some hardware firm, so that even if he did make his cores right his two subcontractors were liable to fall short. The result was worry. inconvenience and delay to both architect and client, and, while the architect could tell his carpenter what a nuisance he was, the carpenter would find excuses, perhaps rightly, too, by putting the blame on the second and third party in the contract.

 All this confusion is obviated by transferring these doors to the sheet metal worker's specifications. He is wholly responsible for the building of the doors, tire covering, the hardware and the hanging. Any  first-class sheet metal worker, who makes fireproof windows, doors and skylights. makes these doors from start to finish, is thoroughly familiar with what the underwriters demand and the probability of any short-coming in the work is very small. If any trouble should, however, a rise, there is only one man to blame, and it is to him and to him alone that the architects, owner and fire underwriters look to have the doors made right.

