<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



soils there will be some settlement, and if the unit pressure is greater at one point than another, settlement will be greater at that point. This condition of uniform pressure is effected by making the area in bearing on the soil in proportion to the load to be carried.

Eccentrically loaded piers resting on piles should have the center of gravity of the system of piles coinciding with that of the load as near as practicable.

The third requisite, namely, the maintenance of a positive pressure on the soil at all parts, has special force as applied to foundations for high or narrow structures where the wind may cause tension or uplift on the windward side at the edge of the foundation, also for anchorages of cantilever or suspension bridges.

In order to have no tension on the extreme edge of a rectangle, the resultant of the vertical load and the horizontal force (as the wind load or pull of anchorage) must fall within the middle third of the base.

The fourth requisite would demand that foundations be made deep enough to be free from danger of undermining by abrasion from streams or drainage water, or by excavation for foundations of adjacent structures. They should be deep enough to rest on soil not affected by frost.

Many failures of bridges have been due to the washing away of the soil beneath the piers. Gravel beds, upon which piers often rest, could very often be cemented to advantage into one mass by the use of grout, as here in before described. Often the scouring action of the stream will carry away large stones of the piers themselves. These stones lose nearly half their weight when submerged, and are hence comparatively easy to move. This is a strong argument for solid concrete piers.

A depth of 4 or 5 feet is sufficient to reach soil not affected by frost in temperate regions. This is deep enough for light foundations as for mill buildings, etc., where the soil is not made ground or fill.

The fifth requisite of a good foundation, namely, that the materials be practically indestructible in their respective places, can be assured only by using materials of known lasting qualities. Brick should not be used in sea water. Wood should be used only where it will be always under water or always exposed to air only. Cement mortar and not lime mortar should be used in wet places, as lime mortar requires a long time to harden if kept wet. Steel placed in concrete is probably better not painted, as the concrete will adhere better to the steel than to the paint and is a better medium of protection than paint.

The sixth requisite demands a foundation that is strong enough to do the work that it may be called upon to do. The forces to be resisted may be (1) a downward force due to the weight of the structure carried, (2) an upward force due to an uplift that may be exerted upon the foundation, (3) horizontal or overturning forces. (4) the upward reaction of the supporting soil.

<article title=" TO KEEP TOOLS FROM RUSTING " author="">

TO KEEP TOOLS FROM RUSTING.

Take two ounces of tallow and one ounce of resin; melt together and strain, while hot. to remove the specks which are in the resin. Apply a slight coat on the tools with a brush and it will keep off the rust for any length of time

<article title=" LONDON'S BUILDING COLLAPSE " author="">

LONDON'S BUILDING COLLAPSE.

With the collapse in London on July 17th of two important places of business, attention has been directed to a rather curious state of affairs in that city.

It appears that some alterations had been in progress on the three storey premises of W. J. Reid & Company, lately leased by Peter Smirlies, for the purpose of converting it into a bowling and billiard palace. On the east side of Hamilton & Long's building five window openings were cut in the wall on the second floor, these being 6 by 6 feet. On the floor below there were only 4 windows cut, each 5 by 5 feet, and not in positions exactly below those on the second floor. At the time of the disaster neither the casings nor frames were in position. Over each window on the second floor two lintels were placed. These were of pine, 5 by 12, projecting into the wall about 8 inches. Over the windows on the first floor lintels were also placed, but these were 4 by l2's. Above these lintels were the upper two storeys, making about 25 feet of wall. According to the contractor's statement this wall was in good condition and apparently was the last to go in the general collapse.

The center wall between Hamilton & Long's and Reid's stores was also included in the alteration scheme, and here apparently was the source of the weakness which resulted in the disaster. This wall on the first floor was 122 feet by 26 feet, and had a line of posts running down the center directly above a similar line of posts on the ground floor. Of these posts on the first floor 9 or 10 were removed and iron pillars substituted. Also about 52 feet of the wall was taken out and 15 inch iron girders, each about 15 feet long, were put in to support the superstructure and were themselves supported by the iron pillars. These latter were put in on the Friday preceding the Wednesday on which the accident occurred.

Asked to describe the iron pillars, Architect Murray, who drew up the plans for the alterations, stated that they were 10 feet 4 inches long and were of 3-4 inch iron pipe. From Gordon's formula Mr. Murray figured that they would support 58.26 tons, and also concluded that, according to the American formula, they would support a dead weight of 50 tons. These pillars were also shown to have been placed 15 feet apart, center to center, they being three in number, the two center spaces being 15 feet and the two end spaces less. The caps for the pillars were 5 by 12's, the ends of the pillars fitting into a flange, the plate at the bottom of the pillar being bedded in cement. The girder also, it was shown, weighed 55 pounds to the foot.

The wall was 18 inches thick, the plates resting on a cement bed on the wall and the flooring on 8 by 8 joists. The iron girders, it was estimated, would carry as much as the solid wall but would not hold the building together so effectually.

Some interesting testimony was furnished by Contractor Hammett. who took a sub-contract to do the masonry work and who cut out the center wall on the first floor. This wall, Mr. Hammett testified, was very loose and shaky, and the mortar had no bond in it. The girders were bolted end to end above the caps for the pillars and also bolted together one against the other. The pairs were fastened together well, so as

