<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	117

<article title=" WOOD FOR INTERIOR WALL DECORATION " author="">

WOOD FOR INTERIOR WALL DECORATION.

Some examples of a mode of decorating the walls of rooms by the use of elaborately finished woods are given by the "Architect 's and Builders' Journal." While the fashion is yet in its infancy and limited to those with ample means, there is reason to believe that it may yet attain some degree of popularity.

Heretofore only a very few of the highest priced house decorators included in their establishments rooms or sections of rooms illustrating special designs In most cases persons up against the always puzzling task of selecting wall decorations for a particular style of house arrived at a decision chiefly by the aid of photographs and samples of wood, paper and brocade.

It is not like that now. In New York there are establishments where rooms of many characters—dining rooms, drawing rooms, sleeping rooms, libraries, foyer halls—fresh from the decorator's hands and exhibiting many grades of cost and the materials and designs now most in fashion, are offered for inspection as freely as a furniture dealer displays his newest models of tables and chairs.

In most cases the quantity of wood in evidence bears out the statement of a well-known decorator that the present demand for wood fittings and trimmings in private dwellings exceeds anything he has encountered in a business experience of two decades, and that the varieties of wood in use are even more surprising than the quantity demanded.

"Dull finished woods," he continued. "have gone ahead of polished woods in most cases. Everybody is clamoring for natural oak, chestnut, mahogany, walnut, etc., and there are a dozen different ways of treating these woods.

"For the time being few persons who come here will look at polished walnut or mahogany or rosewood for wall paneling. Everything and anything of dull finish, with the grain of the wood much in evidence, leads in popularity, and the brighter browns have given place to ash browns and grays. Let me illustrate."

The decorator led the way to one of the show rooms, a library, whose walls to a height o of nearly six feet from the floor were covered with wood divided into panels two and one-half feet wide by strips of the same wood four inches wide. Both panels and dividing strips were perfectly flat and plain without carving or mouldings of any description.

The decorator said the wood was oak. To a novice it looked quite unlike oak. In color it suggested a two-toned, mottled arrangement of dull gray and grayish green, and the natural grain of the wood, every appearance of grain at all in fact, had been obliterated.

The oak, it was explained, had been treated with  solution of lead rubbed well into the pores and then finished with a dull stain only. It is conceivable that an old-fashioned woman might prefer the natural oak. New-fashioned housekeepers, though, rave over the oak in its new dress and will have no other.

In another room, a dining room, the walls to a height of seven and a half feet were lined with oak of a dull grave, showing little or no grain and as smooth as wallpaper. Across the bottom was a seven inch baseboard and a few inches from the top the surface was ornamented with medallions, perhaps a little more than three inches in diameter, placed about a foot apart. These were carved in the wood. It was the color, though, which most attracted.

A second dining room was wainscoted to within three feet of the ceiling with chestnut wood of a drab or putty color, the conspicuous black brown large grain of the wood showing up in a more antique effect, describing an inverted V. This was done by piecing the panels down the centre and cutting the wood on the bias, matching the grain as perfectly where the halves joined as a dressmaker would match the stripes in a silk gown. In this room the same effect was carried out in the heavy mantel, the door and the window panels.

Red mahogany, treated to accentuate the warmer tints, was the feature in a third dining room. There was no wainscoting here. The wood was applied in a baseboard ten inches deep, in a fifteen inch cornice and frieze, in a narrow moulding dividing the room into an upper and a lower section of one-third and two-thirds, the lower wall being treated plainly, the upper in conventional figure design.

All the woodwork in the room, including the mantel, was of red mahogany, and the novel features were the tint of the wood and the cornice. In all the rooms mentioned the wood cornice and frieze took the place of a -beamed ceiling, and this, the decorator declared, was a variation which is now finding much favor in spite of the fact that it is in .direct contrast to the fashion taken up a few years ago of omitting the wooden moulding near the ceiling.

In some of the smartest dining rooms, and also in some of the less expensive, a wood cornice and frieze from fifteen to twenty inches wide is now an admired feature, the ceiling being plain. In a room of this type finished the other day for a New Yorker and done in gray toned oak and a German renaissance design, a wood cornice of eight inches was joined to a twelve inch wood frieze, which, like the wainscoting rising to a height of six feet, the capitals of the doors and windows and the great caryatids upholding the high mantel.. was heavily carved in a scroll and grape design.

In a colonial dining room designed for the country house of a New Yorker, a cornice and frieze fifteen inches wide of white enameled' wood topped a plain delft blue burlap covered space which in turn topped a seven foot high wainscoting of white enameled wood. There may be a question as to the gracefulness of the wooden corn ice, but no difference of opinion, the decorator thought, as to its good style for the time being.

Dull finished walnut, quite unlike the walnut of our grandmother 's day, is in great demand for lofty foyer halls, where dark effects are desired, its gloom being relieved with touches of gold leaf on capitals and columns.

But it is in the drawing room, perhaps, that the growing popularity of wood and vagaries of color are most noticeable. Interiors solely of wood, excepting the ceiling, are more and more asked for, and enameled woods, cream, pure white and of many tones of color, are the favorites.

White mahogany, really a pale ecru in color, is much admired for the same purpose, but because of its higher cost is less frequently ordered. By way of illustration, the specialist cited the drawing room of an uptown New York dwelling just completed.

The color scheme is French gray and white, done in enameled wood panels of varying widths and carved in a leaf and vine Louis XV. design. The wider gray panels are bordered with carving, the six inch wide white panels are almost covered with the same decoration, and the windows, doors and mantel, in which gray and white wood are combined, are similarly treated.

There is no gold ornamentation to detract from the simple effect, the ceiling of the room, too, being of cream white plaster.

