<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—No. 235.	ILLUSTRATIONS.	JULY, 1907.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Students' Competition for a Small Suburban House. proposed Workingmen's Houses for Toronto Cottage Home Company.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS EDITION.

Prince of Wales Fusiliers Armory, Montreal.

New Physics Building of the University of Toronto.

Grammar School and Guild Chapel, Stratford-on-Avon.





CONTENTS

Editorial -		109-110

Strength of Brick and Brick Piers 

The Adaptability of Materials -	- -

Foundations of Traders Bank Building, Toronto		115

Wrong Calculations of Strength - 

Wood for Interior Wall Decoration	-	117

Our Illustrations - -

Architectural League of America	- -	118

Congress of Canadian Architects	 -	127

Competition for Dominion Government Buildings		127

Architect's Right to Compensation for	Drawing Plans	128

Technical Education	-	129

Model Tenement in Rome	 -	130

Color in Architecture	   - -	130

Book Review		130

The Tiled Bath-Room	-	131

Warehouse Building	-	-	-	132

A New Zealand Summer Cottage	-	133

Forms for Concrete Construction -	134

Producing Polished Effects on Concrete Work	-		135

Clinker Concrete Building - - -			'35

Variations IN Brick and Stone - -			ii

How Glass Decays -			x

Montreal Street Railway to Handle Freight	-		xii

Surveying and Drawing Instruments -			xii

Forged Steel Pipe Flanges -			xii

A Substitute for Marble - -		-	xiii

The Crooked House			xiv

Took 1,600 Years to Complete Church			xiv

A Rare Collection of Furniture -	-		xiv



Recently much speculation has Prosperity or Hard been rife regarding the possibility of hard times ahead for

<article title=" Prosperity or Hard " author="">

the man with the dinner pail. At the beginning of the year Mr. John D. Rockefeller essayed to play the prophet's role and predicted "hard times," but the world wouldn't listen then and an optimistic chorus of less prominent financiers pooh-hooed any such possibility. Since that time a two billion dollar slump has occurred in Wall street, followed by a further period of suspense, occasioned by the unseasonable spring and possibility of meager crops.

Now that the season is well on, we in Canada can make some estimate of the probable effect these conditions will have upon us in the near future. It may be pointed out that while the belated spring contracted trade, the actual result was nothing more serious than followed from an extension of credit obtained against unsold goods. Moreover, the high price of money has been wholesome, inasmuch as it has put a check upon highly speculative enterprise. At present the crops in all parts of Canada are making satisfactory progress, and pessimists have ceased to prophesy serious results. Throughout the entire Dominion expansion in all directions is taking place, but it is on the whole a very sane expansion. The recent warning of trouble ahead from reckless investment has not been lost, and the amount of building in Canada, while on the aggregate not so large perhaps as earlier indications predicted. is satisfactory in the extreme.



Some time ago the publishers of

<article title=" Postal regulations Necessitate Change " author="">

Postal regulations Necessitate Change.

were notified by the Post-Office



authorities at Ottawa that they were violating the postal regulations in that they were sending through the mails the loose, illustration sheets, which have been such an attractive feature of this journal. These regulations, it was pointed out, required that only a single undetached sheet might be included in any publication seeking transmission through the mails. The publishers were unwilling to change the form of the paper without a struggle, however, and pointed out to the authorities at Ottawa that foreign journals of a similar nature to THE ARCHITECT AND BUILDER were continually coming into this country without objection being taken and that it was obviously unfair to compel one Canadian publication to comply with a regulation which several foreign journals were continually violating. The fairness of our objection was at that time recognized, and for a time nothing more was heard of the trouble. A few weeks ago. however, when the new postal regulations went into effect, the authorities once more took up the matter, with the result that we shall now be obliged to modify in some degree the form of our illustrations.

Hereafter, the illustration pages, while still being of a superior quality of paper to the rest of the publication, will be bound in, foiled and titled, as are the reading sheets. In this way the publishers hope not only to continue as in the past to assist the architectural profession by these illustrations, but if possible increase that assistance by improved and more varied subjects. This, of course, applies to the Architects' edition only, the regular edition remaining unchanged.

<article title=" Institute of Architects of Canada " author="">

Following the agitation that for

Institute of Architects of Canada.

- so long has been maintained by

the architectural profession in Great Britain and the United States anent the question of registration, the time has apparently arrived when Canadian architects are about to take definite steps in the matter of forming what is to be known as "The Institute of Architects of Canada.'' So much has been written in English and American architect

