<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	201

<article title=" THE OTTAWA COMPETITION " author="">

THE OTTAWA COMPETITION.

BY "AN ARCHITECT."



The announcement, in an Ottawa paper that none of the designs for the Departmental and Justice Buildings are wholly satisfactory to the Government is made with such apparent assurance that it would look as though there is some truth in the rumor. The statement that the Government will hold a new competition outside of Canada is scarcely credible without a direct announcement to that effect.



Among the reasons advanced, in the paper referred to. for a fresh competition, are, first, that one of the prize winners had not conformed to the conditions by failing to provide a waiting room specified in the Supreme Court building second, that there are departures from the Gothic style in the designs with the substitution of ''polyglot" designs; third, that the arrangement of stairways, elevators and rooms is not satisfactory fourth, that all but Gothic designs are barred; fifth, that Classic is the type most suitable for Judiciary buildings, and sixth, that the extensive duplication of the Gothic type in our public buildings tended to sacrifice the attraction of variety.

The article goes on to give the Government credit for allowing Canadian architects this opportunity to demonstrate their ability, and then proceeds to apologize for the architects of this "young country,'' who have not had ''that opportunity in the designing of extensive buildings that naturally comes to those in the older countries.''

The writer of the article and other critics apparently do not know or are ignoring the fact that these designs are not by any means a finality. The competition was frankly announced as one of suggestion and the Government, unwisely we think, did not  to give the execution of the work to any of the prize winners. Doubtless more competitors would have entered the lists, and those competing might have given greater study to their designs if they had had sonic assurance that the winner would be employed to carry out his designs. Moreover, the references to the faults of the prize designs appear to us to be superficial and lacking the definiteness which should accompany a fair and intelligent criticism.

The judges, presuming they gave their task the requisite study, must have spent many days in the examination (if the designs, they must have weighed every point of excellence and exposed every defect, and so analyzed and tabulated the results as to enable them to reach a methodical and scientific decision and to place the various designs in a true and relative position. This being so, it is obvious that the judgment of the assessors should have infinitely more weight than that of those who at best have given the various designs very much less study, and that study probably quite devoid of method or tabulation. It may be freely granted that a room here or there may be lacking or that certain parts may not be so happily related to other parts as to meet the views of those who are to occupy the buildings. It is rare, however. to find any preliminary design free of faults, and especially when the architect has not had the opportunity of consulting the various interests involved.

But when an architect submits a design in competition,

 which practically covers all the requirements called for, it is a comparatively easy thing for him, after coming into close touch with the officers of the various departments, to so amend and revise his plans as to meet their practical requirements.

if the critic in his statement that the ''departures from the Gothic style'' and the substitution of ''polyglot'' designs indicates his belief that the Victorian Gothic of the present buildings with their sharp-pointed narrow' openings, their multitudinous pinnacles, and their many towers of wood and sheet metal. is the only type of Gothic architecture permissable, we are sorry for his lack of judgement.

To our mind the best of the designs have steered clear of the most conspicuous defects of the present buildings. The Gothic of the first prize is of a free type lending itself to spacious openings and good lighting. while the roofs are much more suitable for the climate than the semi-mansards of the present structures, which might well lie termed ''polyglot.'' How does the critic know that ''all but Gothic designs were barred''? He apparently takes this for granted because no Classic design obtained a place among the prize winners. The judges doubtless gave full value and consideration to all points in the designs whether Gothic or Classic in style, and we would lie surprised to find that they had ignored a Classic design of greater intrinsic merit than any of the prize designs which happen to be in the Gothic style, even if their individual leanings were in favor of the hatter style.

The critic infers that because the Classic is the more usual style adopted for judiciary buildings, that style should have been adopted. Some of the finest law courts are of Gothic design, arid there is no reason whatever, from either a practical or aesthetic stand— point, why the highest courts in our land should not follow such precedents. The suggestion that lack of variety will result from the adoption of Gothic designs is an absurd one, and reveals the weakness of a critic who does not understand his subject, He might as well argue that an oratorio should have some ragtime music thrown in to break up the monotony and give variety. There is no type of architecture which

permits greater variety amid, at the same time, harmony than the Gothic, as any student of architecture will acknowledge. It will be remembered that all the Federal Buildings at Washington are of one type of design, the ('lassie, and vet there is no lack of variety. It therefore seems to the writer that, as Washington has adopted Classic as the type of Federal Buildings, resulting iii a harmony that gives unity and interest to the architecture of the Capitol, so Canada could happily adopt Gothic as the type of all Federal Buildings at Ottawa.

Judging from the character of the design selected for first prize, its authors are quite capable of designing buildings which will lie a credit to the nation and to the profession. They should be taken into the confidence of the Government and of the heads of all the

departments	 interested.	They should have the opportunity

 of explaining their designs, and their work should lie criticized by those interested in a frank and sympathetic spirit. After this they should be com-

