<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" ACETYLENE LIGHTING " author="">

ACETYLENE LIGHTING.

Acetylene as an illuminant has thus far received but scanty attention from illuminating engineers,— at least, to judge by the proceedings of their Society. This in reality is not a reflection upon this means of illumination, but a simple result of existing conditions. The field of illuminating engineering is, so to speak, a virgin forest, and the first task is to blaze a trail, which the immediate successors of the pioneers may follow; and this trail must naturally lead to the most prominent land marks. which are electricity and gas.

Acetylene is in the unfortunate position of the dog with the bad name, and if illuminating engineers can do nothing further than to correct the popular misconception of this valuable illuminant, they should at least lend their energies to this task. On account of a few disastrous explosions, which resulted front ignorance of its properties and the simple precautions necessary in its use, at the very outset, the bad name thus obtained has followed it all the days of its life; and to those who have never actually used it, the word acetylene at the present time is only another expression for explosion.

It is unnecessary here to go into a discussion of the relative safety of acetylene lighting. That it is at least as safe as ordinary illuminating gas as commonly distributed, has been proven time and again. both in theory and practice; and to disabuse the public of its prejudice in this respect is a duty to which all those concerned with the progress of lighting should lend a hand.

The beautiful quality of the light of the acetylene flame should also appeal to illuminating engineers.

The manufacture of carbide at l)resent is an absolute monopoly of the one kind which the government not only permits but creates, otherwise known as patent protection. Such monopolies are comparatively short lived; and when these particular patents have expired, which will be in thc near future, the price of carbide will naturally be greatly reduced by open competition, and acetylene lighting take a consequent long leap forward. There is said to be 150,000 residences using it at the present time and some

350 cities arid towns using it for public lighting.

It is worth observing that carbide is a product of the electric furnace and hence acetylene lighting may be considered an indirect form of electric light.— The Illuminating Engineer.''































 "GALVADUCT" AND "LORICATED"

CONDUITS

FOR INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION



Conduits Company Limited

Sole Manufacturers under Canadian and

U. 5. Letters Patent,

	TORONTO	-	CANADA



ARTISTIC FIRE PLACES

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames



Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room





Fire Doug



Screens

Smoke Guards

Interior Metal

work of Every

Kind and

Finish



SEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20.





CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Head Office and Works: TORONTO. ONT.



District Offices: Montreal. Halifax. Ottawa. Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland