<doctype type="text;ad">The don Valley Brick Works, Toronto





NOTES.



J. Monette and P. Laurent, brick contractors, Montreal, Que.,

have registered as Laurent & Monette.



The Breslau Brick & Tile Company, Breslau, Ont., are making several important improvements to their plant, among which

is the extension of the dry kiln.

A. C. Leslie & Company, Montreal, Que., have recently been incorporated under the name of A. C. Leslie & Company, Limited, with an authorized capital of $250,000. No change whatever has been made in the personnel of the management, the directors and officers being as follows S. Leslie, president; H. Campbell, vice-president; H. Jordon, director; H. Copland, secretary; H. Foster, treasurer.

The Toronto University buildings have been insured under a new arrangement, which will continue for three years. The amount of the insurance is $1,450,000, being about one-third more than the previous aggregate of insurance, the increase being due to the number of new buildings. The insurance is divided equally among twenty of the companies doing business in this Province, and the premiums amounted to $16,833.

An enormous block of undressed stone was recently conveyed to Cote des Neiges Cemetery Montreal, Que. to form a monument over the grave where rest the remains of the late lion. Raymond Prefontaine. The stone measures thirty-two feet in length, and is of commensurate thickness, weighing in all 56,000 pounds. It was cut from the St. Philippe granite quarries in Argenteuil County, Que., and required two flat cars to convey it to St. Lawrence Junction, where it was placed upon specially built sleighs to convey it to the cemetery.



Active operations will shortly be commenced by the Western Timber & Mines Company, of Edmonton, Alta., at their stone quarries, which are situated about 40 miles from Edmonton. A dyke of grey limestone overlaid with 20 to 40 feet of clay and underlaid with sandstone, cuts across this property and outcrops on the river bank. The men now on the ground are building camps and facing off the outcrop to put it into shape for cheap quarrying. The stone will he brought down the river to Edmonton, and the management of the companny expect to do a large trade this coming season.











ARCHITECTS!

SPECIFY





INTERIOR IS



 A HARD MATTER









 PRISMS

THE  MOST EFFICIENT MEANS OF ADMITTING SUNLIGHT INTO DARK OFFICES, BASEMENTS, ETC.



.















THE LUXFER PRISM Co., LIMITED

100 KING ST. WEST TORONTO.

SPECIFY



MARBLE

MOSAIC

FLOORS





CLASS

MOSAIC

WALLS





ART

CLASS





Luxfer Prism Company, Limited

100 King Street West, TORONTO