<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" ARCHITECT'S INVENTION FOR RAILROAD WRECKS " author="">

ARCHITECT'S INVENTION FOR RAILROAD WRECKS.

Mr. G. T. Martin, architect, Smith's Falls, has taken out a patent for an improvement in the construction of railway coaches, by which he claims to lessen the danger of cars piling upwards when a collision occurs. At present the front cars invariably pile up on each other. Mr. Martin claims to have overcome this by having the ends of the cars constructed on a slight level instead of making them perfectly straight, so that when the impact comes the cars will be hurled to right and left and ditched, instead of being piled up.



<article title=" MASTER PAINTER.S AND DECORATORS TO MEET IN LONDON " author="">

MASTER PAINTER.S AND DECORATORS TO MEET IN LONDON.

The annual convention of the Canadian Association of Master Painters and Decorators will be held in London, July 23rd, 24th and 25th. Mr. E. J. Linnington, of Toronto, will deal with the subject of ''Shellac,'' and having recently made a test of this material, will be able to give some valuable information. "Moral Obligations of the Members of the Association to One Another" will be treated by Mr. James J. 0 'Hearn, Toronto. Mr. L. Graves will present a paper on "The Successful Painter of the Twentieth Century. Mr. Win. Davenport, of Hamilton, will discuss the question of "Wax Finish vs. Varnish." One of the important topics of the convention has been assigned to Mr. J. W. Knott, of Toronto, who will deal with  The Master Painter's Relation to the Architect.'' Mr. Benjamin Goodfellow, of Galt, will contribute a paper on "Paint Shop pointers The reports of

the Committees on "Apprenticeships" and "Trade Schools" will also probably furnish some very valuable data.



<article title=" CANADIAN NATIONAL EXHIBITION FOR 1907" author="">

CANADIAN NATIONAL EXHIBITION FOR 1907

The prize list of the Canadian National Exhibition of Toronto, to be held August 27th to September 7th, is just out. Many changes are made, making it more convenient for reference by exhibitors. The regulations are altered so that all animals exhibited in the live stock sections must be registered in the Canadian Herd Book registers.

The directors have endeavored in every way to protect and encourage Canadian-bred horses, the prizes in the breeding classes of the horse section having been increased over $600. Several new classes have also been added, including the one for strings of ten horses which is expected to be one of the features of this year's exhibit.

In the speed division the prizes have been increased by $1,000, and a new class has been added, providing for horses that are not fast enough for the "free-for all," but that are too speedy for the 2.30 classes. The conditions remain the same.

In the cattle section A. T. Gordon, of Combs cause way, Scotland, has consented to judge the Shorthorns, which is the largest class in this section.

The general arrangement throughout the prize list this year is alphabetical, so that the finding of any section is simplified. The aggregate amount of the prizes is $39,000, not including the .$3.600 given in the speed department. This is the largest purely agricultural prize list on the American continent.





RRTISTIG	PLACES

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames

Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room

	Fire DOGS	Interior M6tdI

	FENDERS Work of every

	screens	Kind 11110

	Smoke guards	Finish.

SEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20



CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Head Office and Works: TORONTO, ONT.

District Offices: Montreal, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland