<doctype type="text">80	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to inquire into the stability of St. Paul's Cathedral, the statement is made that the construction of the

proposed sewer would be a probable source of danger to the building. This opinion is, however, not held by many who have made a study of the subject. As

designed, this sewer will be entirely in the London clay, 60 feet deeper than and some distance horizontally from the foundations of the cathedral. It will have a cast iron lining built up in segments as fast as the work of tunnelling is executed, and the very small clearance between the exterior of the lining and the cylindrical hole in the clay will be filled with cement grout injected under pressure



<article title=" RIGHTS OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS " author="Baker, F. S.">

RIGHTS OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS.

Apropos of the objection taken by number of Toronto architects to the action of the Manufacturer's Life Association in entrusting to a Detroit architect the construction of their new building, to be erected at the corner of Bay and Melinda streets, Mr. F. S. Baker writes THE ARCHITECT AND BUILDER as follows

Toronto, May 6th, 1907.

My Dear Sirs, I have read the article in your April number referring to "Recent Amendments to the Toronto Building By-law," and I am of the opinion that all of the proposed amendments make for the safety of the public, which, in the absence of the necessary amendment to the Ontario Architects' Bill. is the most important consideration.

I have alread read your article entitled "Rights of  Canadian Architects." ' ' In a recent issue of the Daily Star there appeared an article, quoting a letter written by the Ontario Association of Architects to the owners of a proposed large building to be erected in Toronto, and also an interview with a member of the Association. This I, for my part, thought very undignified and calculated to increase the tendency of capitalists to seek professional advice abroad, as it might indicate a condition which could not exist in the mind of a man competent to successfully conduct the erection of a large building. Neither is it reasonable, as at the present time I know a Toronto architect who is erecting a $400,000 building in the State of New York, without any inconvenience, or interference. I also know that one of the largest commercial buildings in New York City was erected by a firm of London architects, who were well received by the New Yorkers.

At the present time there is being erected in Yonge street a steel frame, tile weight of which indicates to rile a ten or twelve storey building, and I have not heard the name of any outside architect or engineer mentioned in connection with it.

When I introduced a. New York firm, at the head of the profession, to the directors of the Traders Bank, I felt that I would be upheld by every architect in Toronto owing to the high standing of Messrs. Carrere &. Hastings, and to the certainly that, having them with me on the work, the building would be a success

 architecturally.		Consequently the arrangement	was

made whereby we were jointly to design and erect the building, and the building begun in September, 1905 is now an accomplished fact and speaks for itself. It began to produce revenue on the first of  October, 1906.

I have ever been taught that it is futile to try to make water run up hill, and in the same way 110 locality could so organize its various departments that everything should be done by the inhabitants of  the locality. If such a condition were ever brought about the result obviously would be sterile, and I think the occasional introduction of clever men from other localities, in any profession Or business, makes for improved conditions wherever it occurs. For my hart, I welcome United States architects to Toronto, just as I welcome the scores of young English architects who are arriving here every month, and I am of the opinion that my business and the general business of the country will be improved owing to their coining here rather than interfered with. A man cannot be in two places at once.

Apologizing for the amount of space which I have taken up in complying with your request, I am.

Yours very truly,

F. S. BAKER.

<article title=" THE MODERN HALL " author="">

THE MODERN HALL.

An important feature of the modern hall is that it should be well heated, The tendency of the construction is to allow a free and unobstructed ventilation of all parts of the house by means of the lower amid upper hallways, and, by heating the hall thoroughly in the winter time, the other rooms are also warmed appreciably, with a saving in the amount of coal used in the furnace. The defect of the hall as a living room is that it is not always possible to light it thoroughly from the windows of the stairway landing, and the light must necessarily come from the doorway, or arrive, at second hand, from the adjoining room win(lows. The majority of these new' halls make the most of such light as there is by having the portion of the wall above the wainscoting done in plaster, which is left in its natural color, The hallway is finding increased usefulness in the newest types of house as a halfway and informal apartment where all members of the family may receive visitors, whether of a mere social call or for the transaction of business. Its popularity is justified.

<article title=" THE JAMESTOWN EXPOSITION " author="">

THE JAMESTOWN EXPOSITION.

On the three hundredth anniversary of the landing of the first English colonists in Virginia, President Roosevelt, on April 26, opened the Jamestown Tercentennial Exposition at Norfolk. The President iii hi is address welcomed the representatives of foreign Governments present, laying particular stress on the close relationship between American people and their  English ancesters who settled at Jamestown three centuries ago, and this, he said, should be a tie between the two nations now as it was in colonial days.

At the touch of a gold button the Exposition was opened by the President mind the machinery set in motion. The scene was a remarkable one, combining the splendid features of previous Expositions with the added magnificence of the great naval display mind the other beauties of one of the finest waterfronts in the world.



The longest cement bridge in the world is that at Playa Del Rey, near Los Angelos, which measures 205 feet 8 inches. Its span is 146 feet. The width is 19 feet, the spring 18 feet, and the height above water 20 feet.

