<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	63

<article title=" INVENTIONS and MATERIALS " author="">

INVENTIONS and MATERIALS



[ NOTE.—Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers ]

<article title=" THE FAIENCE MANTEL " author="">

THE FAIENCE MANTEL.

One of the latest conceptions in mantel construction is that known as the '' Faience. '' It is constructed of a very high grade of enamelled terra cotta of the same name. This mantel is made up in a variety of designs, particular attention being paid to color effects, which range all the way from pearl grays, dark reds and browns to rich greens, either in dull or highly polished finish. The sizes of blocks vary considerably, from ordinary brick size to 4 inches by 8 inches, 6 inches by 9 inches, 9 inches by 9 inches, 6 inches by 12 inches, etc. Cornices and medallion blocks are finely modelled and are artistically correct. These mantels are sold by the manufacturers, and can be set up in place by any first-class brick mason, the joints being laid with colored mortar, to harmonize with the color of the tile. Varying textures of material are made, smooth, semi-rough and very rough. Good designs also are shown in mission effects, these being highly suitable for dens or libraries.



<article title=" PROSPECTS FOR PRESSED BRICK IN CANADA " author="Berg, A.">

PROSPECTS FOR PRESSED BRICK IN CANADA.*

By A. BERG.



In the present and future ages we have and will continue to have a high grade of pressed brick for building purposes. It is often said that such and such a brick must be imported from the United States, because it is impossible to manufacture it in Canada. The allegation that the material is not here is nonsense ; it is here in abundance. The clay deposits of this country are undoubtedly among the most extensive in the world. To take the best advantage of this, we must have the best knowledge of our resources and of their adaptabilities. The money is here the brain is here, and the people with the highest grade of brick machinery are here, and we are convinced from our past experience that we can manufacture and produce as high grade brick in this country as can be produced by any other nation of the world.

The writer has visited the most modern brick plants throughout the world, and is thoroughly convinced that we have here every facility for making a high grade of pressed brick, with the most modern and successful brick machinery that can lie obtained in any country, and, therefore, does not hesitate to affirm that there is a future success for a high grade of pressed brick in Canada

Shale is exceptionally well adapted for a high grade of pressed brick, and also permits the plant to he operated winter and summer and in wet as well as in dry weather, thus enabling us to keep our machinery in a condition that is unsurpassed for the  manufacture of brick.

Pressed brick can be made from many different kinds of clay. in many eases more easily in summer and dry weather than by using shale, but when it is desired to operate a pressed brick plant continually, iii dry and wet weather. in winter and in summer, the use of a storage shed, with ample capacity for supplies for the inclement weather, is advisable. In man eases the clay collected under a shed will be benefited through the so—called ''sweating process.'' and be thus more suitable for the manufacture of brick.



<article title=" ARTIFICIAL STONE " author="">

ARTIFICIAL STONE.

By a recently patented process a remarkable advance in the manufacture of stone-like substances has been achieved. The patentee has discovered a method which means nothing short of a reconstruction of many well-known qualities of building stone. By a slight modification of his process, he produces all kinds of marble one of his chief successes being the manufacture of a lithographic stone, which has been pronounced by experts as surpassing some of the best samples of the natural material.

Slag is used by this process for the production of an artificial stone by breaking it up in a breaker with crushing jaws of the usual type, and is ground to a powder in a disintegrator. The powdered slag is then mixed with quicklime, seven parts of slag being used to one of lime, and the substances are thoroughly  amalgamated in a revolving mixer and subsequently y ''pugged'' with an excess of water to form a pasty mass of creamy consistency. This is sujected to very heavy pressure in metal moulds, squeezing out nearly all the water, and formed into blocks of the consistency of chalk or stiff marl. After the blocks are quite dry they are placed in stout cylinders, from which the air is exhausted, and when a complete vacuum is obtained carbonic acid is introduced and allowed to permeate the stone for a period of three (lays. By this treatment the hydrate of lime becomes recarbonated and serves to bind the mass into a substance as hard as rock.

If for the slag a basis of marble, limestone, or dolomite is substituted, it becomes possible to prepare a mixture, as heretofore described, in which from three-fourths to seven-eighths consists of calcium hydrate, or a mixture of calcium and magnesium hydrates.  obtained by calcining the stone. These blocks can readily be impregnated with the carbonic acid gas, by which means the lime and magnesium are converted into carbonates and serve to consolidate the mass and turn the whole substance into stone. In the case of marbles, or when making lithographic stone, a certain amount of coloring matter can be added to the paste. The finished stone or marble is capable of a high polish, and is said to possess all the weather resisting properties of the natural rock used in its production. 

