<doctype type="text">202	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



missioned to re-study their designs, eliminating objectionable features and adding others necessary for the satisfactory conduct of the business of the various departments. If this is done it will be the best encouragement which could be offered Canadian architects, and give a confidence of fair treatment which will induce the architects of Canada to throw themselves with enthusiasm into future Government competitions.

The architects of Canada were greatly pleased when the Government decided to inaugurate a competition of designs for the Departmental arid Justice Buildings, open to Canadian architects, with the implication that the former policy of having all Government work designed by the officials of the Public Works Department would be modified. If the new policy is to be continued, and other Government works thrown open to competitive designs, its success will in a large measure depend on the action of the Government in connection with the designs for the Ottawa buildings.

<article title=" THE LATE A. C. BARRETT " author="">

THE LATE A. C. BARRETT.

To an unusually large circle of friends the news of the death of Arthur Clarence Barrett, architect, will come as a great shock. He had not been feeling well for some months and early last September he left Regina, where he had been living, for his old home in Port Dover, Ont. Typhoid fever had developed, and after a hard fight for life, which his strong physique enabled him to make, he had to give



































THE LATE A. C. BARRETT.





up the struggle and breathed his last on the 12th of October.

Born in Port Dover on the 7th of May, 1869, the son of T. B. Barrett, Esq., he was educated in the Port Dover High School. In 1887 he entered the office of D. B. Dick, Esq., architect, of Toronto. After the expiration of his apprenticeship ·in that office he was for several years in New York, in the office of Bruce Price. He also spent some time in Chicago and Montreal, after which he opened an office in Hamilton, Ont., remaining there about a year. About eight years ago he moved to Toronto, where he practised his profession until a year ago last May, when, having an ardent desire to try his fortune in the West, he moved to Regina and soon established a good practice in that city. While in Toronto he was a member

of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club and took an active interest in its proceedings.

Mr. Barrett possessed a delightfully droll humor and a ready wit that was always good-natured. His many friends will long bear him in kind remembrance as a gentleman of high character and attractive personality and as an architect who truly loved his profession.

<article title=" OBJECTIONABLE PHASES OF REGISTRATION ACT " author="Horwood, J. C. B.">

OBJECTIONABLE PHASES OF REGISTRATION ACT.

Exception to certain phases of the proposed act of registration of Canadian architects is taken by Mr.

J. C. B. Horwood, of Toronto, in the following communication:

To the Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Dear Sir, — When reading in your September issue an account of the proceedings of "The First Congress of Canadian Architects,'' I was pleased to note there was one protest raised against ''protecting" the title of "architect." I quite agree with Mr. Eden Smith that the proposition, if carried out, would ultimately have a detrimental effect upon the architectural profession in Canada. In addition to this I am fully convinced the proposition is fundamentally wrong and therefore should not for a moment be entertained. Every architect, worthy of the name, knows that given a wrong motive in design no amount of "working" up or elaboration will produce a desirable result. This idea of the architects' is, in my opinion, actually no wiser a proceeding than should the Royal Canadian Academy of Artists set about endeavoring to have a law passed to prevent any house decorator calling himself an artist.

Do not, Mr. Editor, imagine I am opposed to a Canadian architects' organization. I am not. I think we stand in absolute need of one (as witness the designs of the profession in the late competition for the Ottawa buildings), but the pity is that having established an organization — a good thing in itself —we proceed at once to make an exceedingly bad use of it by seeking such legislation.

The old threadbare argument that it is desirable to do this for the safety of the public is really no better argument than to contend that a student of engineering at the end of his preliminary education, which included several years' office experience, should have a certificate given him by some incorporated engineering society which, in effect, said he was ''qualified" to design a "Quebec bridge." But we all know the public do not urge methods such as these to guard their safety. These are the methods usually adopted by certain groups of individuals seeking private benefits from the Government.

One reason why the proposition is fundamentally wrong is that, if the safety of the public in any community is a matter to be looked after, and it undoubtedly is, the law in relation to the erection of buildings should provide, not that the man be examined, but rather that each and all designs for his proposed buildings should be examined and passed upon by competent Government inspectors of buildings before being allowed to proceed with their construction. The Government should insist on this just as they insist on looking after the safety of the community in another department by means of the police force or the

