<doctype type="text;ad">



CONCRETE BUILDING CODE.

What is regarded as one of the most complete concrete building codes in existence has recently been completed in Cleveland, Ohio. Its originators claim for it all the best features of existing codes, with many additional ones added which the exigencies of the times and. modes of construction have demanded.

Concrete buildings are limited, in the first place, to six storeys, or eighty feet, in height. This limit is to be maintained until the fact has been demonstrated, by several years' lapse of time, that concrete is all that it is claimed to be. ·When the total amount of concrete to be used exceeds seventy-five cubic yards the mixing must be done with machinery, thus insuring a better grade than if mixed by day laborers.

The code provides that complete and detailed drawings and specifications must be presented to the build-hag inspector before a permit for construction is issued. All concrete walls above the basement level and all concrete floors and fireproofing within a building must be made of standard brands of Portland cement, sand and either of the following inerts: Silica gravel, broken stone, slag, brick, terra cotta or boiler cinders, thoroughly screened. No particle shall exceed two inches in size.

Artificial stone made of Portland cement and fire and waterproof material may be used as a substitute for any natural stone. No artificial stone, however, containing more than 15 per cent. of lime or crushed limestone, can be used as a lintel or bearing part of any building over five storeys in height.

Portland cement building blocks, with hollow spaces not exceeding one-third the area of the block and not exceeding nine inches high or eight inches on the beds, may be substituted for brick in all buildings.

Trussed concrete construction requires that the work be properly reinforced by the use of armored concrete in which the concrete mixture shall be of such resistance to crushing not less than 2,000 pounds per square inch after hardening twenty-eight days. It must also be of such proportions that the cement shall exceed by at least 10 per cent. in volume the voids in the aggregate. The steel reinforcement must be of such a shape and so combined with the concrete that the steel may be made to assist in the resistance to compression, take up the tensile stresses and assist in the resistance to shear along proper structural lines.

Columns composed of structural steel shapes or bars, latticed together by riveting and filled in solidly and surrounded by concrete, may be proportioned by assuming that the concrete enclosed within the outer flanges or faces takes up a proportioned part of the superimposed load within its limit of stress, provided that the total assumed load on the concrete and steel column combined does not exceed a factor of three if assumed to be carried on the unfilled column when standing free.

According to the code all concrete work must be constructed along proper structural lines. When each panel of armored or reinforced concrete or any trussed concrete member is started it shall be finished in its entirety before shutting down for moorings or for the







artistic FIRE PLACES

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames

Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room





Fire DOGS FENDERS

screens

smoke guards 

interior metal work of every Kind did finish





BEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20.





CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

head Office and Works: TORONTO. ONT.

District Offices: Montreal, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland