<doctype type="text">66	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE " author="">

DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE.

Nine room frame house on a brick foundation. Main body of house is 27 feet 6 inches by 39 feet 8 inches. Has combination stairway and is heated by steam. Plain oak finish, with oak floors, are provided for first story, except in kitchen and pantry, where Georgia pine is used for finish, and maple for floors. Balance of finish is of Georgia pine, and floors of

quarter-sawed Georgia pine. There is a large attic.



with stairway extending to same. Estimate cost is



<article title=" BUILDING PAPER COMBINE " author="">

BUILDING PAPER COMBINE.

In the Senate a few clays ago Senator Gibson made the statement that a combine had been formed by

Company, Hamilton; Merrick, Anderson & Company,  Winnipeg; Northumberland Paper & Electric Company, Toronto; ; Sault Ste. Marie Pulp & Paper Company. Sault Ste. Marie; ; Sandson Manufacturing Company, Sydney, N.S.

It was stated that the combine had obtained such control that they compelled consumers to pay 1 00 per cent. more for articles than they were worth. the combine provisions did not extend to print paper, but to the ma uy varieties of building paper. A circular had been sent out raising the prices of building, roofing and all similar papers for this year. The price of carpet felt was raised $10 a ton. Building paper was raised from $2 to $2.25 a roll, an increase of 25 cents a roll.

Senator Gibson thought that it would be well if the Government would strike out the duties on build-































DESIGN FOR MODERATE Cost HOUSE.





























































<article title=" PLANS OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE " author="">

PLANS OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE.



Messrs. Jenkins & Hardy, of Toronto, for the purpose of securing control of the building paper and roofing output of ( Canada. They are said to have agents in all parts of the country, from whom retail dealers are compelled to buy, and, moreover, in order to obtain a ten per cent. rebate at the end of the year, must make a sworn declaration that they have bought from no one else.

Senator Gibson also read the following letter

''We beg to advise you that the association now consists of the undersigned, and that for the year 1907 the same quantities and premiums. subject to the same conditions as were in force for the year 1906, will apply. Kindly acknowledge receipt to Jenkins & Hardy, Toronto.'' The letter is signed by the following The Carriette- Paterson Manufacturing Company, St. John and Halifax ; St. Croix Paper Company, Halifax ; Dominion Paper Company, Lockerley & McComb, A. McArthur & Company, Paterson Manufacturing Company; the J. C. Wilson Company, Montreal; W. I. Findlay & Company, Stratheona; Ford & Company, Portneuf; Hamilton Tar Distillery

ing paper, as at present it was one of the most important commodities used by settlers in the West.

Hon. Mr. Scott pointed out that there was a provision in the criminal law against combinations in restraint of trade. It had been used recently and a conviction obtained on less evidence than Senator Gibson had given. it was, however, not the duty of the Federal Government. to enforce the criminal law. Any individual could take proceedings.

Senator Lougheed took exception to this opinion. He did not think the expense and. trouble of bringing improper combines to time should be thrown on individuals.

Senator McMullen declared the Government should take immediate action against the combine Senator Gibson had revealed to the Senate. He thought the Government should have an agent in every Province to look out for combines and report upon them.

Sir Richard Cartwright said this was the first time the attention of the Government had been called to the building paper combine, and intimated that it would be looked into.

