<doctype type="text">74	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the concrete caisson columns will be supported by bedrock. A building of this kind, carefully erected, is  about the safest kind of building ever devised.

Right next to the steel comes the terra cotta or concrete fireproofing. Each column in a fireproof steel building is encased in terra cotta from fop to bottom. This is called fireproofing the steel Terra cotta is a  clay product that has been burned with exceptional thoroughness. It has come to have a large place in building operations. And it is used not only to encase the steel frame of the building, but also to form the arches of the floors and in a more refined state to cover and ornament the street elevations of the building. As the terra cotta, piece by piece, begins to creep over the steel, the brick contractor and the stone con tractor begin to follow.

The brick and stone for the walls of the	building rest usually on the outside beams and girders, called lintels, of each story. That is, the masonry for each story is really a structure by itself. That is why it is possible to do the masonry work on an upper story before the masonry work of a lower story has been started. Brick, stone and terra cotta may all be used in the walls of modern steel buildings. Bitt they are only a shell. The kernel is the steel frame.

While the steel columns are being fireproofed with terra cotta and while the walls are being built, the floor arches begin to appear. These arches are built on the ordinary arch principle, with keystones and subordinate pieces. They are sprung between the beams, and girders at each floor level. They support the weight of the flooring itself.

This flooring on which people will stand, mar be  made of wood or stone or marble or concrete, or any other suitable material. But it is not the real floor. It is just a coating. The real floor consists of the floor arches. The floor arches sustain the weight of the flooring and of the things and people on the flooring. 

When the steel frame has been erected and fireproofed, when the walls have been built, when the floor arches have been sprang, it is clear that the big outlines of the building have been completed. But  meanwhile everything else has begun. The staircases are going in. The elevators are being installed. The boilers are being moved into the basement. The woodwork of the doors and windows is being erected. Glass is being moved into place. All these things keep hap—  pening at the i same time, and unless they are managed

 harmoniously		the	building will be delayed. 

When the last tap of work has been done, and when the building is ready to be handed over to the owner for occupancy, we can stand off and take a look at it. Six months, or twelve months, or eighteen months, depending upon the size of the building, have Passed since the wreckers were let loose on the old structure

in cc that ti inc the engineer in charge may have spent five million dollars on behalf of the owner. Of such a sum about $600,000 may have been spent on steel and about half a million each on brick and stone. In the new County Building, Chicago, there are 35,000 different pieces of steel, besides 500,000 rivets. The steel

pieces in that building set end to end, would reach 250 miles. If the same weight which exists in steel

pieces were put into an iron bar a quarter of an inch iii diameter it would reach all the way around the

world, with a thousand miles to spare. The granite in the County Building weighed more than 11,000 tons. Five hundred cars were needed to haul it from the quarries. The scope of such a structure, and its wealth of detail. are overpowering.



But let us take a look at its strictly architectural features.

 Most modern steel buildings are erected. for purely commercial purposes. The owner has land of a certam value, lie puts up a building of a certain value. And he naturally wants to get the largest possible return on his investment. The architectural features of the building are therefore the features in which lie economizes, except in so far as the public comes to demand a handsome building for business purposes. In some cases a big firm will erect a handsome building simply as an advertisement. In such eases the architect is freer to devote himself to the development of a  beautiful structure. But the usual rule is that the building is strictly commercial, and that the owner is  satisfied with such architectural beauty as will he sufficient to attract tenants. And perhaps it is more fortunate in some respects for the architect when the owner looks at I lie proposition in that way. For when the architect is given a free hand his troubles begin. 

The modern steel building is more difficult to harmonize with the traditional rules of architecture than any other kind of building that was ever invented.

One of these traditional rules is, for instance, that the building shall look to be what it really is. that it shall not be a sham, that it shall be sincere. Now a modern steel building has a steel frame. Yet, on the outside, it looks as if it were made of stone and brick and terra cotta. This is clearly inconsistent. And it is an inconsistency that runs all the way through the building.

In many a steel building, for example, you will find beams that are carried across the ceiling in certain big  rooms, and that look as if t hey were supporting the ceiling. Yet, if you are familiar with construction, you know that they are not supporting the ceiling at all.

	These	beams are simply made out of plaster and

	other	similar materials.	They	support nothing.	They

	are	themselves	supported	by the floor arches	and t he

beams and girders. The are not architectural construction. They are simply architectural decoration.

	These grand	columns	that	we see so often	on the

exteriors of buildings might theoretically be supposed to consist of big, single pieces of stone or marble. worked into the proper shape. As a matter of fact.  they are in all probability nothing of the kind.

If they resemble a great many of the columns that have been erected in modern times they are built out of a series of separate pieces about five feet in height, these paces being placed one on top of the other. It frequently happens that the eye is even more grossly deecived. Each piece of the column (technically called a drum), may consist of several smaller Pieces tied  together with pieces of metal called dowels. The  column may be hollow in such cases. or may have concrete e work and masonry inside it. . It may also be anchored hr other pieces of metal to a steel column. The architectural column, then, consists of metal, of  concrete, of masonry, of I hollow spaces, and of pieces of stone joined

	together to form drums	which then,

