<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	19



OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

NEW BUILDING FOR THE NATIONAL CLUB, BAY STREET,



TORONTO. —MESSRS. PROATT & ROLPH, ARCHITECTS.



MR. S. G. CURRY, CONSULTING ARCHITECT.



C. A. AND B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR $3,000.



HOUSE IN SMALL COUNTRY TOWN.—DESCRIPTION OF MATERIALS TO BE USED IN



CONSTRUCTION OF DESIGN BY "PTHAH" " (MR. W. L.



SOMERVILLE).

<article title=" CONSTRUCTION OF DESIGN BY "PTHAH" " author="Somerville, W. L.">

The entire ground floor walls to be a dark red common brick, with a wide (4 courses to the foot) black joint.

The first floor walls to be of frame, with stucco finish outside (see details). This to be of a rich cream color, pebble dashed.

Exterior wood work painted or stained a dark golden brown. Window frames and sash white.

Roof, if not too expensive, to be dip stained a dark brownish green.





BOOK REVIEW.

''Principles and Practice of Plumbing,'' by J. J. Cosgrove, published by the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. The author of this work, recognizing the need of a book dealing with the. plumbing trade, has compiled a great deal of very valuable information, given to the reader in a clear and concise form. That the author is thoroughly conversant with his subject is undoubted, and a feature worth noting is that the book is written, not only for architects and persons advanced in a knowledge of the plumbing business, but also will be found of great advantage to any person of ordinary intelligence who is interested in this line of work. The contents first appeared in serial form in Modern Sanitation' which is also published by the Standard Sanitary Company, and was afterwards put into book form on the request of architects and engineers. The book consists of 275 pages, is illustrated throughout, and is indexed in such a way that information on any subject desired can be readily found.



<article title=" THE SELECTION OF AN ARCHITECT " author="">

THE SELECTION OF AN ARCHITECT.

Under this heading Messrs. E. M. Storey and Van Egmond, architects, of Regina, send out a leaflet to prospective clients, as follows

How to obtain the best architectural service is a question which presents itself in every building operation. No matter how small the building proposed, this question should receive earnest consideration, for the proper selection of an architect always saves the owner time, money and much worry. What follows can do no harm and may (10 good. Read it.

Architects should be selected as other professional men are, on the basis of their professional ability and integrity. It is sometimes thought that best results can be obtained by inviting architects to submit designs in competition, with the privilege retained of returning drawings with or without a ''Thank you.'' Is this reasonable? Would you desire the services of a doctor, lawyer or artist who would enter such a ''free' competition? Legitimate competitions, with proper fixed awards, are right and sometimes advisable, but architects who serve their clients best have no time for free competitions.

Regular architects' fees are small in proportion to the advantage gained if you get proper service, and the fees are not based on the supposition that part of the work can be done gratis.

An architect should be in closer touch with his client than is possible in a competition. Efficient architectural service

like good clothes, should be made to order. It always saves more than it costs.

An architect should be an adviser and agent of his client, whose duty it is to carry out the problem in hand to the best advantage of the owner. if it require numerous preliminary plans he should cheerfully make them, provided he is assured that he is not working on an uncertainty. An architect who has been retained for a certain building will not be tempted to misrepresent matters relative to cost, etc., hut will make the best possible use of the amount to be expended.

An architect should not be asked to guarantee the cost of a proposed building. While lie may lie able to give a fairly accurate estimate of what a building should cost, it is impossible to foretell what it will cost. Many local causes beyond the control of any architect may affect this.

We are always glad to make preliminary sketches and redesign them as often as desired until the owner is thoroughly satisfied, provided we are retained solely for the work, In this way the owner's ideas and our practical experience combine to result in a successful building as regards costs, utility and design.

We do not keep ''stock plans.'' We will cheerfully show prospective clients plans we have on hand for the purpose of

































































HOW A FRONT DOOR IS LOCKED IN MEXICO.



Where burglaries are uncommon.





suggesting ideas, hut we will not duplicate any building prepared for a former client. We make original designs for all work entrusted to his.

Our charges are based on the usage of the profession throughout America and are proportionate with efficient service.

We are in receipt of so many applications for service, which, while honest in their intent, give evidence of a misunderstanding of an architect 's proper position, that we take the opportunity of stating what we believe to be the best procedure for both client and architect.





The velocity of the air in heating flues with only a natural draft rarely reaches eight feet per second, no matter what the condition; and two feet, four feet, and five feet, respectively, are fair averages of velocities for first, second and third floors of a house.

During the examination of a witness as to the locality of the stairs in a house, the counsel asked him, ''Which way did the stairs run?'' The witness, who, by the way, was a noted wag, replied that ''one way they ran up, and the other way they ran down,"

