<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" SASKATCHEWAN'S WATER SUPPLY " author="">

SASKATCHEWAN'S WATER SUPPLY.

The Executive Council of the Province of Saskatchewan has had under consideration a report from the Commissioner of Public Works, stating that in many parts of the province serious inconvenience and hardship exists resulting from the inability of settlers to secure a water supply, and that in many instances these conditions are due to the absence of suitable well machinery. The Minister also reports that in order to assist in the solution of this difficulty it is desirable to encourage the importation of well machines adapted to the requirements of particular districts, and that it is also desirable to encourage the sinking of wells by paying a portion of the cost thereof.

Upon the recommendation of the Commissioner of Public Works the Executive Council advises:

1. That upon receipt of a petition, signed by at least three residents in an area where unsuccessful efforts have been made to secure a water supply, which area shall not exceed thirty-six square miles, and upon the conditions that the owner of a well machine will agree (a) to sink at least three wells in the area defined, each well to obtained a supply of water, or, if no water is obtained, each well to be sunk at least 300 feet deep and furnish satisfactory evidence of same; (b) to supply satisfactory evidence as to cost of machine, power and tools laid down at destination; (c) not to remove machine from this area nor to dispose of it to a second party without the permission of the Commissioner of Public Works (d) to charge such rates for sinking well as may as approved by the Commissioner of Public Works.

There shall be paid out of any moneys appropriated by the Legislative Assembly for that purpose to the owner of each such well machine:

1. One-half the cost of the well machine, including the power, provided the machine costs $500, f.o.b. destination, but not over $2,000, and is of such style as to receive the approval of the Commissioner of Public Works.

The payment as provided under this clause is to be made upon fulfillment on the part of the owner of the aforesaid conditions, with the exception that in case satisfactory security, such as chattel mortgage, is given, that the provisions of clause (a) will be complied with; payment under this clause may be made upon registration of chattel mortgage, the said mortgage to be discharged after conditions of clause (a) are complied with.

2. A bonus of $1 per foot for every foot over 500 feet in any well, but bonus under this clause not to exceed $500.

3. If necessary to drill over 1,000 feet in depth, such further bonus as may be decided upon by the Commissioner of Public Works.

In addition to the above assistance the Department may supply well casing and any other well supplies the Commissioner of Public Works may deem advisable, at cost.

Nothing in the foregoing is to be construed as prejudicially affecting arrangements made in respect to assistance to importers of well machines, prior to the date of this Order-inCouncil, and payments may be made in such cases in accordance with the arrangements already agreed upon.

GEORGE WOOLLISCROFT & SON, LIMITED

