<doctype type="text">94	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ings. In order to obtain perfect protection, the wall should have been built as carefully as possible, the joints have been well pointed, the whole have become well dried, and the asphalt or tar applied in two or more coats. These coatings should not stop with the face of the wall, but be carried entirely over the top. some builders recommend that the asphalt be mixed with linseed oil.

Regarding cement as a preventive against absorption of water, there are differences of opinion. That it is an excellent protective covering, when thoroughly applied, goes without question. It is. however, often fractured by the settlement of the walls, and, being somewhat porous, suffers from the action of frost. In either case, it has no further value as a protective. In order to lay it properly, all the beds and joints of the walls should be raked out at least one-half inch deep. The coating should not be less than one-half inch thick, and should, as far as possible, be applied all at one time. If it is necessary to make a joint, it should be vertical and not horizontal. The last precaution is that the earth must not be filled in against it until the cement has thoroughly set.

A similar protective covering is made of a concrete of one-half lime mortar and one-half good cement (Portland preferred).

Of the constructive devices adopted to guard against dampness, we have first those that are in the wall itself, and which comprise the horizontal damp courses, hollow brick lining and facing and hollow wall. There are several kinds of horizontal damp courses, which are placed at the bottom of the wall, either on top of the footings or a short distance above them. That which is considered the most effective damp course is one of asphalt or tar, applied in coats in the same manner as described for the facing of the walls. A great degree of efficiency is given by laying the course of bricks immediately above the damp course, while the last coat is still hot and soft. When this damp course is set in a stone wall it would be better to lay a course of bricks, and, on this, place the asphalt course, starting the stone course above the latter. A layer of slate set in cement has often been adopted as a damp course. The disadvantage, however, of using this method is because of it being very liable to fracture under uneven pressure.

Sheet lead also is an excellent protective from damp, and has been applied for that purpose for about two centuries. It is precluded from being used for ordinary work because of its cost.

Perforated terra cotta bricks may be also used as an excellent damp course. These are made the same size as the ordinary brick, and can be readily beaded into the wall. A course may be set immediately above the footings, and another at, or near, the top of the wall: The bricks should be laid so that the openings run through the wall, and so allow of ventilation and evaporation of any moisture that might rise in the hollow bricks themselves. The perforated bricks are also used to form a vertical damp course. They may be placed either on the inside or outside of the wall, and may be laid as stretchers, as there is not the same liability to collect and retain moisture as there is in the horizontal course. Headers should be placed at frequent intervals to bond the facing of the body of the wall.

A simple and somewhat inexpensive system of rendering walls absolutely damp proof, and of adding much to their strength and stability, is to build the brick work into two four and one-half inch thicknesses, with a half inch or three-quarter inch cavity kept clear of mortar. Thin boarding is inserted in the cavity as the work advances, thc space being afterwards filled with rock asphalt compositions. The compositions answer the double purpose of binding the two thicknesses together, and making the wall impervious to moisture.

In general, damp-proof courses should be six inches or more above the level of the external ground, but, where possible, under thc wall plate carrying the joints for the floor. In buildings finished with a parapet wall, a damp-proof course should be inserted just above the flashing of the gutter, so as to prevent the wet which falls upon the top of the parapet from soaking down into the woodwork of the roof and into the walls below.

In some localities courses are formed with slates, set in cement. These are sometimes liable to crack, and thin impervious stones are better. Sometimes vertical damp courses are used, particularly when the ground outside is higher than the wall plate inside, to prevent the damp penetrating through the wall. The damp course is bedded in the wall directly under the wall plate. This prevents the moisture rising and destroying the wood. The vertical damp course acts in a similar manner in excluding the damp through the side of the walls. The joints of brickwork should be raked out to receive this damp course.

There is another method of preventing damp from getting into a wall, and that is by what is known as the "dry area method," which consists of building a dwarf wall all around the building, and leaving a space of two or more feet between the dwarf wall and the walls of the building. The dwarf wall is finished with a brick-on-edge coping, built in cement. The floor of the area is usually covered with cement concrete paving, to prevent the water soaking in.

hollow or cavity walls should be adopted for external work in damp situations exposed to driving rains. These walls are generally built of brick or stone, having a cavity of two or two and one-half inches. The outer wall should be four and one-half inches, the thicker portion being inside, false headers being used in the outer wall. The thick wall inside will carry the doors and roofs, the woodwork being kept clear of the outer portion, which is liable to be damp. The cavities should be ventilated by air bricks in the external portion at top and bottom, care being taken that no mortar or other drippings get into them. The wall ties, usually of cast or wrought iron, galvanized or well tarred and sanded, should be employed to tie the two walls together, or a tie or bonding brick constructed especially for the purpose may be used. Walls constructed after this manner not only exclude the damp, but the layer of air they contain, being a non-conductor of heat, tends to keep the building warm.

There is another method sometimes adopted, because of its cheapness, and that is to lay common field tiles all around the walls, both inside and outside, and connect them by drain tiles to the sewage system or some low spot where the drainage will be effective.

