<doctype type="text">82	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PROCEEDINGS OF 1907 CONVENTION OF THE ARCHITECTURAL LEAGUE OF AMERICA " author="Hynes, J. P.">PROCEEDINGS OF 1907 CONVENTION OF THE ARCHITECTURAL LEAGUE OF AMERICA.

The convention of the Architectural League of America for the year 1907 was held in Washington, April 22, 23 and 24. It was opened by President Russell, of St. Louis, in the convention parlors of the New Willard Hotel, addresses of welcome being given by President Windrim of the Washington Club, and Mr. McFarlane, chairman of the Washington Commission, who welcomed the delegates on behalf of the city.

Among the more important things dealt with by the convention were the scholarships which have been granted to its members by Harvard University, George Washington University of St. Louis, and the League's own scholarship, the first winner of which is now in Europe.

The question of raising the standard of entrance











































J. P. HYNES,

President Architectural League of America, 1907-08.





into the club was dealt with at length and several resolutions embodying recommendations to the clubs of the League were passed in this line in conjunction with the Educational Committee's report, which proved to be the centre of interest of the convention. It was also determined to continue issuing the Architectural Annual, and to retain the services of a permanent secretary and to establish permanent headquarters for the League, which, it has already been practically determined, shall be located in Washington.

The Washington Club was very lavish with its entertainment. A visit to Mount Vernon and several automobile rides through the city were particularly enjoyable. The delegates also had the privilege of being presented to President Roosevelt, who welcomed them with a few very encouraging remarks on civic

government.

The convention terminated with a banquet in the New Willard Hotel, presided over by Mr. Waddie Wood, of Washington, and addressed by Mr. J. P. Hynes, of Toronto, the new president of the League; Mr. E. J. Russell, of St. Louis, the retiring president, and Mr. N. Max Dunning, of Chicago, the president of two years ago; also by Congressman Batholdi. chairman of House and Grounds Committee of Congress; Mr. Cas. Gilbert, of New York; Mr. Thos. Nelson Page, and Mr. J. Knox Taylor, Supervising Architect of the United States Treasury.

The following standing and special committees were struck by the convention

Publicity and Promotion, Jesse N. Watson, of St. Louis, chairman; Alfred S. Alschuler, of Chicago, and Alex. M. Adams, of Philadelphia. Education, Prof. Newton A. Wells, of Urbana, Ill., chairman; H. V. Vonholst, of Chicago, and Frederick M. Mann, of St. Louis. Traveling Scholarships, Prof. Percy Ash, of G. W. U., Washington, chairman; Albert G. Skeel, of Cleveland, and S. C. Gladwin, of Cleveland. Architectural Annual, Edmund H. Poggi, of Philadelphia, chairman; Chas. Mason Remey, of Washington, and N. Max Dunning, of Chicago. University Fellowships, Prof. Emil Lorch, of the University of Michigan, chairman; August G. Headman, of San Francisco, and Charles T. Ingham, of Pittsburg. Special Committee on Individual Membership, E. Helfensteller, Jr., of St. Louis. chairman; Win. B. Ittner, of St. Louis, and John C. Stephens, of St. Louis. Special Committee on European Tour, Prof.

N.	A. Wells. of Urbana, Ill, chairman.

Mr. J. P. Hynes, of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club, who was elected president of the League by the convention at Washington, entertained his club to luncheon in Toronto on May 9, when the following Executive Board was selected: —President, Mr. J. P. Hynes; vice-president, Mr. J. M. Lyle; corresponding secretary, Mr. A. H. Chapman; recording secretary, Mr. H. Eden Smith; treasurer, Mr. C. D. Lennox; advisory. Messrs. Eden Smith and J. C. B.







OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

Three typical Canadian Carnegie libraries, Ottawa, Lindsay and Paris, Ont. The Ottawa building was designed by Mr. E. L. Horwood, of that city, and constructed of Indiana limestone and local freestone. The interior and fittings are of golden oak. The Lindsay Library is of modern Greek architecture.



































 -

















PLAN BY "WOOD' INC. A. & B. COMPETITION FOR FARMHOUSE.



Red stack brick was used, laid with American bond in brown mortar. Clear pine lumber alone was used in the construction. Mr. A. T. Wickson, of Wickson & Gregg, Toronto, designed the Paris building, which is of brick with stone trimmings. The interior is finished in southern pine, while the fittings are of golden oak.

The Old Church at Tlalpam, Mexico.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER students' competition for a farm house. Design by ''Wood'' (Mr. Chas. Dolphin, 73 Park avenue, St. Henri, Montreal). House to be balloon frame, shingled outside. Heated by furnace and supplied with hot water from kitchen range. Chimneys and fireplace to be of rough stone. House and barns to he connected by covered passageway. Living room, maple floor, pine finish, stained brown. Dining room, same material stained white. Kitchen and office. pine floor, pine finish. Bedrooms and bathroom, pine floors.

