<doctype type="text">78	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">

MONTREAL NOTES.

The extraordinary	circumstances of two of the most extensive and valuable of the McGill University buildings being destroyed by fire within one fortnight led to a special investigation of the cause in the case of the Medical Building. The inquiry, however, seems to have resulted in no confirmation of theories of incendiarism, and both fires can be ascribed only to accident. Professor Nobbs is in charge of the  reconstruction of the Macdonald Engineering Building, which is to be rebuilt with a view to accommodating the Civil Engineering and the Architectural Department, and it is hoped that an entirely new building may be erected before long to house separately the Electrical Engineers, who have hitherto been accommodated in the same building with the Civil Engineers. For the rebuilding of the Medical department four firms of architects have been asked to submit competitive designs. It is believed that private munificence will come forward to pay for these new constructions, but, as it is not to be thought that the rebuilding can be otherwise than on a more extended scale than previously, the need of endowment, always a crying one at McGill, is likely to be more pressing than ever.

It is announced that the Strathcona Memorial in  Dominion Square is shortly to be completed. The

equestrian statue and the bas-reliefs on the sides of  the pedestal have been prepared in Paris by Mr. Hill, the sculptor, and it is hoped that all will be place and ready for unveiling on Victoria Day. 

The Dominion Bridge Company are now at work on the erection of an overhead bridge, which is to permit passengers going to or from the Victoria Pier to do so without having to pick their way through piles of cargo and over labyrinths of railway lines, as formerly.	This	convenience has long been promised, 

and the matter has been referred too on previous occasions in these notes with the suggestion of a still more thorough and convenient accommodation for arrivals by water in Montreal. This bridge, however, is a step in the right direction, and will be particularly appreciated by the many-childrened Canadiennes who dare the perils of the water in the summer time.

A proposal which has been broached before is again on the tapis, viz., that of providing a car line on to the mountain to make it more accessible to the poorer people. The suggestion is to connect the Guy street line with the Park Avenue line in the neighborhood of Mount Royal a venue. The new service would thus run across the back of the mountain, presumably between the summit and Mount Royal cemetery. Of course such a proceeding would materially de-ruralize and take away much of the beauty of that part of the hill, but it must be conceded that the most accessible part of the Mount Royal Park. that which is known as Fletcher's Field, is pretty fully taken advantage of by poor families, who gather there in thousands on Sundays throughout the summer a practice which must be exceedingly beneficial to the children and ought by all means to be encouraged even at the risk of losing a little of the scenery.

The Temple Building at present bears a placard announcing that "this building is too be entirely demolished in thirty days; watch it." The boarding

erected in front of this building has been a cause of some difference of opinion among civic officials, the building inspector maintaining that such an obstruc-  tion is not permissible according to the oily by-laws. We hope the city inspector is right and that he will carry his point. There is no doubt that much inconvenience to the public may be saved by insistence on keeping good foot way for the foot passengers. Some little provision for overhead scaffolding is necessary, but the public deserve some such consideration. For some time not the public right of way along the south side of Craig street has been practically barred by the operations at the MacIntyre Building, and anyone trying to make his way past was forced too cross at one of its foulest points one of the filthiest streets that ever disgraced a city.

In the beginning of May there was an increase asked and given in the minimum wage of several  trades. The only strike was that of the granite cutters, who asked $3 for an eight-hour day, instead of

fur a nine-hour day. Those granite workers who were engaged on building work. however, were  already receiving the higher rate, so that building is not affected.

The Engineers' Club has now moved into its new premises in Beaver Hall Square. The fine house, formerly part of the Dow estate, has been altered to suit the purposes of the club by Messrs. Lake & Archibald.

Work has now begun on the new Arena which is to lake the place of the old Chrystal Rink on Dorchester street. The St. Lawrence Hall, the historic hotel of Montreal. is now no more. Its premises are now occupied by the Dominion Express Company, the property having been purchased by the Canadian Pacific Railway for $350,000. The upper portion of the building will be used as a hotel for one year. 

A suggestion has been made that Mr. Carnegie should be again approached with regard to a public library for Montreal. On a former occasion Mr. Carnegie offered one hundred and fifty thousand dollars on condition that the city should spend fifteen thousand annually on a public library. At that time our corporation, in its inserntable wisdom, considered that the city could not afford so much money for such a purpose.

The following items relating to Montreal formed part of the supplementary estimates laid before the Federal Parliament on April 20: —$3,000 for fittings in the Amherst street postal station: the enlargement of the head postoffice, St. James street, $300,000; eastern postoffices, $25,000: St. Henri postoffice,  $1,200. The office of the Gazette newspaper, situated in the rear of the General Post office a rid separated from it by Fortification La mine, has been purchased as a site for the extension of the postoffice.

The committee which is too advise the Government as to the purchase of works of art consists of Sir  George Drummond, the Hon. Arthur Boxer, of Montreal, and Mr. Byron E. Walker, of Toronto.



<article title=" BOND & SMITH CHANGE OFFICES " author="">

BOND & SMITH CHANGE OFFICES.



 Messrs. Bond & Smith, architects, Toronto, with Mr. A. H. Cassels as associate, have moved into the Union Bank Chambers.

