<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER                 	71

<article title=" BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AS AFFECTING INSURANCE RATES " author="">

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AS AFFECTING INSURANCE RATES.

A matter on which there should, theoretically, be no diversity of opinion between the Canadian Fire Underwriters' Association and Canadian architects is that of fireproof building construction. That such is scarcely the ease at the present time must be admitted. However, in view of the marvellous strides that  are continually being made in building construction, unanimity of opinion can scarcely be possible. The fire underwriter, oblivious to architectural beauty and intent on absolute conformity to a stern code of rules which time has established as being absolutely necessary in protecting a city from fire, finds it impossible to see eye to eye with the cultured architect, whose aesthetic sense often blinds him to the need of adhering as closely as he might to established principles for guarding the public safety.

In Canada the underwriters have found it impossible as yet to lay down an absolute standard of regulations for fireproof building construction, and, in consequence, every building is rated by comparison with others which more or less nearly approach it in design. However there is a standard of requirements published for mercantile risks. According to this standard, buildings may be of three classes: Factories of ordinary construction, factories of slow burning or mill construction, and fireproof buildings. What these terms imply is pretty generally understood by architects and contractors generally. What requirements must be observed to enable a building to l)e rated in either of the two latter classes is likewise a matter of common knowledge. More and more builders of expensive structures are paying attention to the opinions of the fire underwriter, and are asking their architect to prepare his plans in such a way as will entitle them to the most favorable rate possible. Instances are not rare in Toronto where annually thousands of dollars are being spent needlessly in fire insurance premiums, because of slight and oftentimes unnecessary departures from the code of the underwriters, a little attention to which would have resulted in better buildings and greatly increased revenues.

That the time is at hand when the underwriter and architect will no longer have the old grounds for dispute seems probable, in view of the fact that methods of fireproofing buildings have at last advanced beyond the primitive stage of semi-opaque windows and iron shutters. For the heretofore sole remaining vulnerable parts of a building, such as door and window openings, wire glass and metal sash are now provided, the former as transparent and as neat in appearance as the costliest plate. In this connection, the recent tests of Professor Woolson, the fireproof expert of Columbia University, have established beyond doubt the practical value of wire glass as an absolutely fireproof material. Professor Woolson has kept samples of this material heated up to 1,700 degrees Fahrenheit for half an hour at a time. At the first rush of heat time glass crackles, but the netting holds it together and flame cannot pass through. It will hold flame up to the melting point. which is different in various kinds of glass, some melting at 1,000 degrees amid others standing 2,000 successfully. When a stream of water is turned on wire glass that has melted almost to the running point, it immediately solidifies, so that it is a material well suited for elevator shafts, where a sudden rush of flame would crack ordinary glass and admit fire to all floors.

The continually growing favor with which rein forced concrete is being regarded by architects for  fireproof building construction makes it necessary that some common understanding should at once be reached with the underwriters regarding it. whereby builders of such structures might be reasonably certain of securing the best possing rates. The question is frequently being asked how it is that reinforced concrete should not have any specified advantages in the matter of insurance rates, such structures when properly built with suitable concrete aggregates, and

with the metal properly protected, being obviously safer insurance risks than any other class of building.. The answer to this question lies in the fact that the mere provision of a reinforced concrete structure (hoes not affect the insurance question solely but that in many other points, thickness of walls and floors, position and construction of stairways and elevators, windows, lighting, heating. etc., the requirements of the fire underwriters must be observed,

It seems, of course, most regrettable, from the building owner's point of view, that, having erected what lie considers a building worthy of the best possible insurance rates, lie should find himself compelled to pay the same as his neighbor, who has buildings with unprotected steel joists. or, as it is generally called, old-fashioned ''fireproof'' construction. The fact of the matter is the insurance companies prefer unprotected steel joists, because they know exactly where they are from the fire insurance point of view, a knowledge which they cannot have in the case of reinforced concrete, concerning the exact composition of which they are uncertain.

As a matter of fact, insurance companies encourage good reinforced concrete construction, and they were among the first to recognize its advantages if properly installed, from a fire-resisting point of view. At the same time nothing can be more dangerous in a great conflagration than such a structure, in which the necessary precautions have riot been observed. Of ''poor reinforced concrete the best that can be said to its advantage is that the material used is incombustible, but incombustible material is not synonomous with fire-resisting construction. In fact certain incombustible materials are a distinct source of danger as, for instance, the steel bar and steel joist, if not properly applied.

At New- York recently, Mr. Edward T. Cairns, chairman of the Committee on Fireproofing and Insurance of the National Association of Cement Users, said in his annual report

In the hollow block line there have been no actual fires of importance in buildings of this construction, so far as your committee have learned, but several tests have been conducted by various parties, all of which tend to confirm the view-s expressed in last year's report to the effect that concrete, properly made and applied, is an excellent fire-resisting material for certain uses, but has limitations which preclude its being properly classed as absolutely 'fireproof.' Tests such as have recently been reported in the press by Mr. Somerville, of the Washington Building Department, and others, demonstrate beyond doubt that hollow block will surely break apart from unequal expansion of the different sides if subjected to a very serious fire, and therefore such blocks are not suitable for 'fire walls' or for any part of a building which, by reason of its size or contents. may develop a fire of high temperature, or, particularly, of long duration.

''Other experiments, involving fire of shorter periods or lower temperature, have developed thus weakness, and indicate that under conditions of comparatively mild exposure, hollow blocks may be reasonably safe. Just how much fire they will stand in point of temperature and time is yet to be determined, and, we anticipate, will be ascertained in the tests now' in progress by the Government Laboratory, under Mr. Humphrey, and the Underwriters' Laboratory at Chicago. We shall be disappointed if considerable of this data is not produced during the current year."

It must therefore be impressed upon Canadian architects, entrusted with the designing of factories and warehouse buildings, that they bear in mind the safeguards necessary for reinforced concrete construction, which, if carefully considered before the work is started, will mean not only a substantial economy to the building owner in insurance rates, but also ensure him a more desirable class of tenants and increased revenues.

