<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

The annual meeting of the Toronto Builders Exchange was held January 21st when the report of the Board of Directors was received and showed the Exchange to have had a very prosperous year. The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows:

President, T. W. Self; First Vice-President, C. W. Batt; Second Vice-President, A. Dinnis; Treasurer, Jas. Crang; Secretary, F. E. Phillips; Directors, R.

G. Kirby, Wm. Clark, Win. Smallwood, F. Saunders and G. Duthie. W. Davidson and F. Holmes were appointed auditors.

<article title=" LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE

Several important matters were discussed at the ninth annual meeting of the London Builders, Exchange which was held January 21st.

The Exchange is strongly in favor of having proper record kept of all buildings erected in the city and the incoming Board of Directors were instructed to confer with the City Engineer on this matter.

Another question of the utmost importance that was taken up is the formation of a Provincial Association of Builders' Exchanges. Representatives were appointed to meet at any time or place, delegates from the other Exchanges or Contractors' Associations who may convene to discuss the matter. This is a very important step and it is hoped that the other associations throughout the province will give serious consideration to this question.

The officers for 1906 were re-elected. They are President, G. C. Young; First Vice-President, J.

Whittaker; Second Vice-President, G. Hyatt; Secretary-Treasurer, G. S. Gould. The Board of Directors is composed of E. Martyn, A. Nobbs, T. Beer, J. Jones and E. A. Payne.

<article title=" MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

The ninth annual meeting of the Montreal Builders' Exchange was held January 14th, when the annual report of the Board of Directors was presented and other important business transacted. In the course of his presidential address Mr. R. George Hood remarked on the success of the Exchange, and in reference to other matters said

" I would like to put before you the many ways in which a Builders' Exchange may benefit its members and the building business in general. To fully picture the Montreal Builders' Exchange as I hope to see it some day, would make this preface to our report too lengthy, so I will only touch briefly on a few important matters requiring early attention.

It is felt that a new and larger home for the Exchange is required. This is an important problem, and cannot be solved in a day, so we propose taking these premises for another year, as we believe this will not involve financial loss, even though we should move to other quarters within that time. We have looked at several places, none of which fill our requirements exactly.

We are considering the advisability of forming a joint stock company for the purpose of erecting a building to be known as the Builders' Exchange Building, and the offers to take stock, coming from some of our members, indicate that this plan is within the range of possibility.

" As soon as a building proposition can be got

into proper shape, your directors, whoever they may be at that time, will doubtless lay it before us, and I am of opinion that this matter will come before you at an early date.

Some of our contractors occasionally complain that our architects are unpatriotic in letting some of the largest contracts to foreigners. On the other hand, the architects justify their actions in this respect on the ground that a number of our contractors are not in a position to carry out these large buildings as expeditiously as they require, and afford insufficient competition. If this is true, it is for us to overcome the difficulty by keeping abreast of the times in our different branches, or if necessary, forming such combinations as may be required to take the large contracts. 

I believe that obtaining a preference for Canadian contractors and Canadian materials is largely in our own hands, and by showing that we have first-class materials, first-class contractors, and doing what we can to educate our youth to be first-class tradesmen, we can rely on our architects and fellow-countrymen to deal with us, and in these various ways aid in the prosperity of our country.

As has been said, the twentieth century is Canada's century, and we must keep pace with its advance in order to reap our share of the benefits."

In presenting their Ninth Annual report, the Directors state that they are greatly encouraged in testifying to the ever-widening scope and consequently increasing usefulness of the Builders' Exchange.



After referring to the prosperous conditions which marks the year 1906, the report says

"From the view-point of supply, building operations have been greatly hampered for want of structural steel, deliveries

being everywhere many months in arrears.	There is a good



opening here for a concern capable of carrying a million dollars' worth of spot stock. Brick supplies have been, and

are on the slow side, and the universal shortage of transporta-



tion facilities has also added a deterring factor in the pushing forward of construction work.

The current year starts with large unfinished balances under way from 1906. In addition, large and substantial erections are projected, especially on St. James street, where new bank premises alone will run into millions, viz. The Eastern Townships, the Canadian Bank of Commerce, the Batik of Toronto, the Royal, and the Credit Foncier. The Royal will also build an up town branch at the corner of St. Catherine and Drummond. Opposite is to he erected a $100,000 10-story block for Willis & Co. A new $50,000 Concert and Music Hall is projected for Berthelet street. The present Victoria Rink is also to be converted into a Concert Hall. Then there is under contemplation the new P. 0. Pneumatic Station near Bonaventure, and a large Turkish Bath establishment on Dorchester St. West. The Hervey Institute is to remove from Mountain St., to new quarters at Claremont and Western avenue; and a new school building for Westmount is to arise on the upper level between Grosvenor and Lansdowne avenue. The new goal at the Back River and the first Baptist church on Sherbrooke and Union avenue round out the list of principal buildings within the preliminary horizon of construction.



Coming now to the work of the Builders' Exchange in particu1ar, your Directors are glad to be able to testify to the enlarged scope of its operations, and the efforts put forth on behalf of the rights and interests of the Master Builders and Employers of Montreal. The Hoard proposes to shortly review this work and these unremitting efforts, in their legislative, industrial and social aspects:

<article title=" LEGISLATIVE " author="">

LEGISLATIVE. —During 1906 several measures touching the rights of employers as well as employees have been brought forward both in the Federal and Provincial Parliaments;



(1) Early in June an "Act respecting Immigration" was introduced at Ottawa by Hon. Frank Oliver, which in the first instance contained an objectionable clause permitting the im-

