<doctype type="text">210	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE COMPETITIVE DESIGNS AT OTTAWA " author="McLaughlin, M. J.">THE COMPETITIVE DESIGNS AT OTTAWA.

	By M. J. MCLAUGHLIN.	C. E., Ottawa.



The exhibition of the designs for the new Justice and Departmental Buildings for the Government of Canada, recently on view in the Railway Committee Room in the House of Commons, forms an interesting collection of architectural studies and furnishes the observant outsider with a fair idea of what can be done by the members of the designing fraternity in the Dominion. Of the twenty-nine designs submitted in

competition,	twenty-five	are exhibited, some	of these

showing a very high degree of excellence, while others give evidence of little discrimination or knowledge. Most of tile designs affect some phase of Gothic, as recommended in the conditions set forth for the guidance of competing architects; but, owing probably to the fact that Gothic is not generally used for such purposes as office or justice buildings, there is nothing startlingly brilliant in any (If the conceptions. A short resume of the designs from a critic's point of view may lie interesting.

No. 24, by Messrs. E. & W. S. Maxwell, of Montreal is tile first prize design. The planning is well studied, the arrangement of stairs, elevators and toilets in the Department Block being very successful. This building has been treated very simply and a restrained feeling is noticeable throughout. The buttress treatment is original aid pleasing, although perhaps the terminating turrets of tie central feature might hear a little more study. It is very evident that the authors have kept in mind the purposes for which the bit building is intended. The Justice Building forms a charming composition, being pleasing in perspective and very cleverly planned. However, it strikes one as somewhat overdrawn and does not easily give the impression of a Hall of Justice. The drawings in this set are models of cod draughtsmanship, as indeed are all the winning designs, and one would have to go far indeed to find greater excellence in this respect. In fact it is very noticeable in some eases that the drawing is much superior to the actual design.

It is with pleasure one turns to the next design, No. 12, by Messrs. Darling & Pearson, of Toronto, awarded second prize by the assessors. It is truly Gothic in plan and very cleverly arranged. The perspective is excellent and the treatment throughout is interesting in its variety. The detail in places is somewhat too bold, but these little faults would probably be eliminated if carried out by the authors, whose work is always refilled. The draughting g lit is bold and the perspectives elegantly rendered in pen and ink in a style closely resembling those of a well-known Scottish perspective artist. This design would probably v give the most satisfaction of any in execution. aid it is to be hoped that the Government will follow the lines indicated in this excellent design. This is one of the prettiest sets of drawings, being exquisitely rendered and well worthy of tile place they have received.

No. 19 is by Messrs. Saxe & Archibald, of Montreal. and takes third place. This is a remarkable set of drawings, showing decided Beaux Arts influences. The rendering is very effective anti the bird's eve view is a particularly fine piece of work. In plan the Departmental Block is somewhat unstudied -- the working out of the staircases being questionable. It is

simple, however, and very compact. The elevation is treated very simply and would perhaps lie monotonous were it not for the dominating central tower which is very clever and has a tendency toward the A it Nouveau. The Justice Building is similar r in effect but more monumental ill character. The ball 11 treatment is grand indeed.

No. 30 is by I Messrs. Brown & Vallance, of Montreal. This has been awarded fourth prize. It is a well thought out plan, the disposition of the buildings being carefully studied. A symmetrical arrangement has been effected by dividing the Departmental section into two buildings, with it central Justice Building. The style is a modern adaptation of perpendicular  Gothic, showing evidence of continental influence. The general office is dignified, but the detail is somewhat overdone.



No. 18 by Mr. A. H. Chapman, of Toronto, gets fifth place. The plans are the redeeming feature 

this design, both the Department and the Justice Buildings being well thought out. The elevators, however are disappointing, the detail being poor and the mix-up of styles showing a lack of appreciation of true Gothic and inability to interpret it intelligently.



No. 22, by Mr. John M. Lyle, of Toronto, comes sixth in order of merit, and is a fine set of drawings.



 Departmental	plan is somewhat unstudied, the  arrangement of stairs and elevators hieing poor. The Justice Building, however, is good and very economical in arrangement. The treatment is Tudor although

her too churchy in appearance, the detail being uninteresting and showing lack of feeling.

The next, No. 8, is by Mr. Albert Ewart, of Ottawa, awarded seventh place. The simplicity of plan is the outstanding feature of this design. The architectural

	treatment,	however, is uninteresting,	being	of



the factory type. The author's	knowledge of detail is evidently restricted to local examples of Gothic, such as the Royal Mint and the Victoria Museum, now in course of erection, and which ore not particularly worthy of repetition. The bird's eye view is striking and boldly rendered and is a good example of  draughtsmanship.



No. 15 is by Mr. John McLaren of Vancouver, and is placed eighth. The plans are ingeniously laid out, but the system adopted is haul, giving poor light and showing lack of adaptation to the climate. There is some good feeling in the elevations, but there are quite a number of much better schemes which hove been

 placed further down the list.

No. 6 by Messrs. Sproat & Rolph, of Toronto, is a charming piece of composition, of great beauty and dignity. It is mediaeval in character and reminds one of some old English abbey. The pen and ink rendering is excellent — after the style of Cram's work -but tends to accentuate an ecclesiastical appearance.

Probably had t lie drawings	been rendered in light ink and monotone the effect would have been less churchy. This is one of the few designs that has any pure Gothic feeling and the same character has been given to both buildings and bridge, the latter hieing particularly quaint in effect. The planning of the Departmental Building suffers from the number of areas used, but the Justice Building is excellently arranged. It is strange that so fine a piece If design has been given only ninth place, as it is well worthy of more honorable mention.

