<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	3

<article title=" C. A. AND B. COMPETITION FOR A SMALL SUBURBAN TOWN HOUSE, JUDGES' REPORT " author="Gray, John Wilson and Gemmel, John">C. A. AND B. COMPETITION FOR A SMALL SUBURBAN TOWN HOUSE, JUDGES' REPORT.



Placed 1st., ''TECKTON.,, — This design is placed first for excellence of drawing and for evidence of independent thought, less influenced by the customary. The living room is, we think judiciously, for this type of house, a fine large room, and the arrangement of pantry and stairway is good but exception must be taken to the cloistered verandah, which, if good in itself, yet takes from the dining room the feeling of freshness by excluding south sun. If dining room were extended into this space, and verandah or stoop thrown to back, plan would be improved. Draughtsmanship clever, but just a suggestion that author may be led astray by desire for striking rendering. The house as a finished result should be the single aim, and this is only to be gained by studious working out of all its parts.

Placed 2nd, " PTIIAII. " -- is a good design, well drawn, especially in plan and formal garden. On the exterior, we consider the front gable a discord in the style adopted, and that outline would be improved by hipping front break, and the available space still abundantly lighted by the three other doorners.

Placed 3rd, " CHRISTOPHER WREN." — This is a creditable design, the draughting well done, although free hand parts lack precision. The perspective of gable is untrue, and cast shadows, exaggerated, giving false impression. Although one may like the coped gable as giving more dignity, the prejudice that this mode is unsuitable to our latitude is endorsed by its general avoidance. Dining room is a cheerful room, living room a comfortable one, and the arrangement and use of large pantry good.

Placed 4th, "ARCHITECTURE." Draughtsmanship of this design fairly good, but touching up overdone. The plan is crowded, although there is evidence of study. Too much importance given to pantry; may he necessary' for bath room above, but the resultant meagre-ness to front entrance hall is to be condemned.

Placed 5th, " CRAFTSMAN." -- A good design on customary lines. Dining room and parlor fine rooms, with effective bay' window in each. The absence of vestibule and back stair is noted. Think staircase window should be omitted. In house this size enough light would be reflected from ground floor window to light upper hail. The exterior over gabled front might be dispensed with, and no harm done. Confining stucco to upper storey is judicious. Drawings are done in a style suitable to routine of office work, except that more definition on plans is desirable.

Placed 6th, "Stucco." —A design for frame and stucco house which does not shrink the making of all external angles in plaster, nothwithstanding the havoc Jack Frost has made in numberless examples. The exterior has a plainess which is good. As to plan, nine-tenths of the precedents would condemn taking the area of both verandahs within the walls as extravagant, but those who have lived to see their adjunct verandahs going to decay might give other testimony.

Placed 7th, '' TRI-ANGLE.,, — This design is placed 7th., although drawings and details show knowledge and ability that should have taken higher rank. The plan, however, is elementary and wanting in interest. The exterior is better, and would make quite a good storey and half cottage.

Placed 8th, "LINCOLNS IMP." -- is of English half timbered style but is restless and over featured ; the verandah costly for area covered ; plan shows rather comfortable house to live in; but cannot be said to have been skilfully worked out, the drawing is well done, but not improved by weak wash shadows.

Placed 9th, ''MINERVA.,, — An American house of a democratic type. The gambril gable is an effective feature when used with discretion but should not be emphasized by half timbering. Means should have been devised to light first floor without the multiplicity of gables. Plan is not had; improvement is suggested by making stair start from elevated platform of more utility than cramped space now at foot of stair. Drawing clean hut showing inexperience.

Placed 10th, "PONTILO." -- Pontilo has not put too much time either in study of plan or execution of drawings. All we can say is that if executed it would not by any means be the worst house sent in in this competition, as the massing and outline of whole with large centre chimney is distinctly' good.

Placed 11th "DOMINION." -- Shows some novelty of plan which would give rather effective interior, especially in reception room and hall, but elevations show too many features and draughtmanship is weak.

Placed 12th., "COSMOPOLITAN." -- Much the same style of house as "Minerva". Plan is good entitling it to higher place, but drawing is poor more particularly the perspective.



Placed 13th, "RENE SAENS.,, — It is rather peculiar



that for the prototype of this design coming from a

young present day student one has to hark back 30

years or so.

Placed 14th, "SCRATTER." -You are placed last, but as consolation would say' that your judges have not failed to note your logical manner of honestly trying to roof your plan naturally as developed by its outlines. You have however in the matter of execution and detail of drawings fourteen pretty tall steps to  climb.

J. WILSON GRAY

JOHN GEMMELL 



(Signed by Committee)

C.	H. ACTON BOND Eighteen

	A.	H. CHAPMAN	Club.

The names of the prize winners in this competition are First, Mr. S. Douglas Ritchie, 74 Guardian Building, Montreal; second, Mr. W. L. Somerville, 182 Spadina avenue, Toronto; third, Mr. Cecil Burgess, 230 Wood avenue, Westmount, Montreal fourth Mr. Charles Dolphin, 73 Park avenue, St. Henri, Montreal, Que.

The publishers are much gratified with the success of the competition and are under obligation to the Judges for their disinterested labors.





Sheet metal sheds for automobile storage — that is, sheet metal garages — are becoming a factor in the trade of some sheet metal workers. This material is not only cheap, but it makes a non-inflammable house that can be easily enlarged or removed.



Ordinary corrugated iron receives one coat of paint at the rolling mill, the paint usually employed being red oxide of iron thoroughly ground in pure linseed oil, with enough drier mixed in to give it proper drying quality. The first coat of paint is applied by machine, and likely to he imperfect, wherefore the sheets should be painted again after putting them on the building.

