<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	65



an artistic effect is that of covering the wall surface with a splatter—clash coat of cement mortar applied by splashing it on with a paddle or a broom—or, better still, it may be first spread on with a trowel and then roughened by stippling with a stiff broom or brush or even a flat board, in which case the roughening is obtained by suction against the board. When such treatment as this is to be used, it may be highly appropriate in some cases, and indeed quite interesting, to decorate parts of the surface with some simple panel work or free-hand modeling.



<article title=" SOME PREVENTIVES OF ADHESION OF CONCRETE TO STEEL " author="">

SOME PREVENTIVES OF ADHESION OF CONCRETE TO STEEL.

The adhesive strength of concrete to steel is undoubtedly severely tried by ceaseless application and removal of load and the consequent successive production and relief of the various internal stresses which tax so severely this essential and vital factor of reinforced concrete design and construction. Passing without comment the acknowledged fact that scale or thick rust will seriously impair the adhesion, it may be said that numerous critical examinations plainly indicate that any rust on the metal (while completely absorbed by the concrete and so effectively preventing  further corrosion) did materially lessen the normal adhesive power of the concrete ; the bond was often found lacking opposite the rust discolorations on the concrete, while remaining firm on each side where rust had been entirely absent ; and, where the adhesive bond was destroyed in the middle portion of the beam, this destruction habitually terminated in a discolored section, apparently indicating the encountering of an increased adhesive resistance at the cleaner portions of the steel.

 Another fact that has escaped deserved attention is the probability that a material excess of water used in mixing the concrete apparently lessens its adhesive power. It is realized that a moderately wet mixture is desirable, in order to prevent voids in the concrete as ordinarily placed, anci especially to secure sufficient plasticity to ensure a complete filling of the space around and below the network of reinforcing steel ; bnt there seems to be a real danger that the reaction against dry concrete is being carried too far. An excessively wet concrete not only contains numerous globules of water, which, when absorbed, leave the concrete porous, but these, also, especially weaken the adhesion of the concrete to the steel, because there is a tendency for such water globules to seek the surface of the reinforcements, particularly on the under side rrhe weakening of the bond from this cause was evident in certain beams in which time adhesion was noticeably weak the water cavities being apparent at the bottom and sides of the steel bars.

In view of the fact that certain oils have a disintegrating effect on concrete, it may be well for builders who propose to introduce reinforced concrete floors in mill buildings or machine shops, where oil is liable to reach the floors in appreciable quantities, to exercise care in this respect. To prevent any disastrons consequences in this regard, concrete floors should be given some impervious upper surfacing. Care should also be taken to guard against the introduction of oils into concrete mixtures in the process of construction, where it is sometimes customary to paint or oil the small rods or webs of expanded metal

used for reinforcing. It must not be forgotten that a film of oil or too fresh paint will stand in the way of the perfect bond between the cement and the metal, which is the very essence of the life and usefulness of reinforced concrete. Even in the case of the large metallic members of the modern reinforced concrete structure, the unripe or green condition of the protective coating is considered by many as a possible source of weakness.



<article title=" MUNICIPAL AWARDS OF PUBLIC CONTRACTS " author="">

MUNICIPAL AWARDS OF PUBLIC CONTRACTS.

That partiality is being shown employers of union labor in time awarding of city contracts is the charge urged against the Montreal City Council by the Builders Exchange of that city. The trouble began when, on March 15th, the Road Committee, in awarding the contract for curbstone, passed over the lowest tender and awarded it to an employer of union labor at a considerably higher figure, the only apparent reason for this conduct being that the lowest tenderer refused to promise that he would employ union labor only. When the story of this award reached the ears of time members of the Builder's Exchange a formal protest was sent to the City Council, and read as follows

The question of employing union or non-union labor had no right whatever to be brought up when awarding tenders. If that were to have been an essential condition of award, it should have been definitely so sta ted when inviting tenders.

''Not only does this board protest, as the representative of a large body of ratepayers ancl property owners of Montreal, but it also protests on behalf of time leading contractors comprising the Builder's Exchange, because, by turning over the city 's contract work to a mere section of labor seeking a monopoly, von are not only depriving the non-union workman of his right to earn a living, but you are also raising time whole labor market outside by the arbitrary procedure of your committee, which makes such action unjust, not only to the ratepayer, but also to the contractor.

''Hitherto representations made by this board  have been politely acknowledged and ignored. The board has no intention of letting the present protest rest here, ancl unless accorded an early reply will take steps to have a strong deputation representing rate-payers' associations arid other influential bodies wait upon the full Council. We ask in conclusion that tlie action of the Road Committee be not ratified by Council.''

Upon hearing this communication, the Council promptly showed their attitude by adopting the report of the Road Committee and awarding time contract to the union tenderer.



<article title=" GOOD DRAUGHTSMEN SCARCE " author="">

GOOD DRAUGHTSMEN SCARCE.

Toronto architects complain of the difficulty experienced in trying to procure competent draughtsmen. Even where they are prepared to pay lime high

est	seems impossible to secure good

	salaries, it	men.

Trial has been made of some English draughtsmen who come to Canada with highest recommendations from leading London firms, but their services have not proved satisfactory, partly on account of the difference between Canadian and British methods.

