<doctype type="text;ad">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	ix.

<article title=" WOOD FOR WATER PIPES " author="">

WOOD FOR WATER PIPES.

The use of wood for water pipes is increasing in the Western States, and is said to present many advantages. Pipes made of bored logs were used long ago, but modern wooden pipe, built of staves and fastened end to end by metallic clips, was introduced in Denver about 1882. Andrew Swickard, writing in The California Journal of Technology, says

"Wood pipe is, as a general thing: much cheaper and more economical than riveted steel pipe. Where the pipe is to be subjected to a comparatively high pressure (say 250 feet head or over) it might be cheaper to build of steel. There are so many variable elements due to locality that enter into the cost of pipe that it is difficult to make comparisons. As a general thing, wood pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent. cheaper than riveted steel.

"The interior of a wooden pipe will not deteriorate as does that of an iron pipe. From the standpoint of steady capacity the wood is far superior to iron. Not many careful experiments have been made on the flow in wooden pipe. The results are not materially

better than those obtained by experiments on the flow in new, smooth iron pipe.

"The comparatively early deterioration of two or three existing pipe lines has been used as a premise for arriving at the conclusion that wooden pipe is a failure. Where there is one pipe line that has been a partial failure (there are no absolute failures) there are dozens that are giving the utmost satisfaction. Each partial failure has been due to local causes which might have been avoided if they had been understood. It is well known that iron pipe gives under some conditions the greatest satisfaction, while under others it is very unsatisfactory.

"The use of wood pipe has been greatly extended in recent years. A number of long lines have been built in the East during the past two years. It is even attracting attention in Europe. The use of wooden pipe, on a large scale, was decidedly a Western innovation. After a demonstration of its worth it has found favor with the engineers of the East. At least in one case, wood pipe has been favorably considered by conservative English engineers. This is in connection with a large water project in India."



Doolittle & Wilcox, Limited, Dundas, Ont





































The Canadian Bridge Co., Limited MANUFACTURERS OF Walkerville, Ontario



STEEL BUILDINGS, ROOF TRUSSES

Railway and Highway Bridges and Structural Steel and Iron Work of all description



Estimates furnished upon application.



the "Fell" GORNER POST AND TRANSOM BAR

WHICH MAKES GLAZING EASY	GLASS IS SET FROM THE OUTSIDE

	Corner Post.	Transom bar	Transom bar.

Used in up-to-date Display Windows and Store Fronts. Does not obstruct the light. Gives use of every inch of window for display



its adaptability and utility will be grasped by every merchant. Send for descriptive circular.



For Sale by CONSOLIDATED PLATE GLASS CO.

TORONTO	MONTREAL	OTTAWA	LONDON	WINNIPEG