<doctype type="text">42	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER















[NOTE.—Contributions suitable for publication in this Department are invited from subscribers and readers. 

<article title=" MINING AND PREPARATION OF MATERIAL " author="McCannell, J. S.">

MINING AND PREPARATION OF MATERIAL.*

By J. S. McCANNELL.



In dealing with a subject of this description it is not my intention to do more than mention a few of the many ways in which clay and like products are handled and prepared for manufacture. Hardly any two plants have the same way of preparing material, owing to the different formations and locations of the raw product.

In some European countries the material is taken from the beds of rivers. We read of the London brick makers obtaining their supply of sand from the bottom of the River Thames, where it is raised into boats made for the purpose.

The Dutch clinkers or paving bricks, which have been fain for centuries, are manufactured from the slime deposited

by the river on its shores and at the bottom. This is collected by men in boats, who have long poles with a cutting circle of iron at the end, also a bag net with which they draw up the slime. This is mixed with sand to make the payers.

The manner of taking material for brick making from the bottom of rivers and lakes with poles is not of modern origin, as will appear from the following inscription which stood upon the brick pyramid near Cairo, the translation being as follows:

''Do not undervalue me by comparing me with the pyramids of stone, for I am better than they as Jove exceeds the other Deities. I am made of brick from clay brought up from the bottom of the lake adhering to poles.'' So we see that the ancients realized that clay brick was then, as it is now, the best and most durable building material.

In getting the material out in its raw state a great deal depends upon its location as to how it can best be handled. Much of the soft clay must be dug out with a spade and handled with horses and carts if the haul is close, or if the distance is great a track is usually laid and cars holding from a yard to a yard and a quarter are used. These may be hauled by a horse, or a cable may be used by attaching it to a drum and hauling the car up by means of power from the engine. Electricity may also be used for hauling up cars by means of a storage battery. This kind of power will no doubt be used extensively in the near future, when we get properly hitched on to Niagara Falls, or use water power in our own counties.

Where the material is hard enough to blast, dynamite is used for blowing out the clay or shale, which is leaded on cars or carts by hand or by means of a steam shovel.

In mining clay it is very important if possible to get natural drainage, so as to avoid the necessity of pumping out water in the wet season.

As we all know, in the treatment of clays there is a great deal of difference in the preparation for the machine. Some clays will go direct to the pug mill, and others having stones and ether impurities must be put through separate machines for the removal of these impurities, In the case of our own material, which is almost all a shale, we put everything through our dry pans, which a are live in number, before the clay is ready to go to the hoppers. In the case of the stiff mud bricks we feed the dry clay, which has been first pot through the dry pan. to our pug mill, where it is tempered to the proper stiffness before being made into bricks. With our dry press bricks the clay is tempered in the dry pan ready for going to the brick machines, by means of a small spray of water.

Another means by which the material is frequently brought in from the clay pit is by means of the aerial wire rope

* Paper read at the convention of the Association of Canadian Clay Products Manufacturere, Toronto. December 12-14, 1906

tramway. This system is used in several large plants. Time wire rope over which the tramway buckets travel is supported by wooden towers. The buckets make a complete circuit of the tramway, the loaded buckets travelling from loading terminal to discharging terminal upon the wire cable, and after discharging its load time bucket continues around a terminal sheave wheel and proceeds upon a second track cable on the other side until near the loading station, where it is automatically detached from the traction rope by means of the automatic clip arrangement, and this clip passes on to the bucket just ahead, which has just been loaded, and picks this bucket up and carries it on in the same way as the preceding one.

A great deal has been said and written about weathering clay before it will make a good brick. This is something that actual tests alone can determine. Of course, some materials must be dried out before they can be ground up. Our own experience with our shale is that we can make better brick direct from the bank than by any other way, owing to the fact that the moisture is more uniform when the clay is fresh than if it were partly dried out.

A steam drill is used in many plants for drilling the holes into which the dynamite charges are placed for blowing out the shale or clay. In our plant we use hand drills, which make holes to the bottom of the beds which we wish to blow out. A dozen or more of these boles are exploded at once by means of an electric battery, and this will supply clay for several days' run.

I might add that while in tempering and preparing the raw material it is very important to have the water and clays mixed in the right proportion, this will not necessarily make good bricks. It requires to have mixed with it an experience and skill which is acquired only after using a good deal of that grey matter called ''brains.''

<article title=" MARBLE " author="">

MARBLE.

Looking backward into history we find the faddist who discovered a use for the various colors and shapes of marble found in Greece. Italy and Asia and he made such good use of his skill and discoveries that the sight-seer of to-clay will go around the world to see and study the handiwork of the artist and thus brings out the thought that without the raw material the artist could not have shown what was in him and that is why Carrara marble quarries are famous and have been instrumental in making Florence and Rome show places of the world. As we look about us to-day, in our own country, time public building, the hostelry, the home is made more charming and attractive by the molding into shape and form the marble of America and while yet the quarries of Europe are still called upon to furnish immaterial the development in the past few years of marble deposits in Vermont, Georgia, the Pacific Coast States and other sections linus led to a portrayal of the wealth, of beauty in marble in our own country and all we need to become a show place and educator of the world is to use our brain and energy to originate by the use of the skill that we find in our own people and promote time use of our own products in the interior decorations and educate ourselves to acceptance of the artistic and then we have our commercialism which is commented on so much, sugar coated and made easy to adminster and take.





Time business of the late Mr. Thos. Hanley, of Port Arthur, has been taken over by Mr. H. R. Halton and Mr. John Hanley. whom will continue under the name of Hanley & Halton. Both men have had considerable experience, and already have a large amount of work on hand.

