<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	163

<article title=" HAMILTON HAVING PHENOMENAL BUILDING YEAR " author="">

HAMILTON HAVING PHENOMENAL BUILDING YEAR.

From all indications Hamilton is to see a phenomenal building year, in spite of strikes and unusual difficulty in procuring building material. Earlier in the season the scarcity of brick threatened to seriously handicap contractors, but that difficulty has since vanished. It is estimated that there will be at least 500 new houses built in Hamilton this year, besides an unprecedented amount of structural alteration. In respect of large and important buildings, Hamilton has had better years, but never before has the amount of general construction run into such figures as will the operations slated for the present season. The building permits for 1907, up to the end of April, totaled $1,984,690, as compared with $1,257,310 for the whole of 1906

A curious feature of the situation is the surprising number of frame dwellings that are this year being erected by the working classes. Contractors also are doing a lot of cheap speculating in this direction, induced thereto by the strong demand for working-men's houses. One prominent Hamilton architect stated that he had drawn up plans for a frame house costing about *700. and that numerous examples of this class of ''shack'' were to be seen in the outskirts of the city. The house is built on cedar posts and boarded beneath to ensure greater warmth. No cellar, furnace or lighting is furnished, and yet $10 a month is asked for this class of dwelling. If the tenant asks for electric wiring *12 is the rental demanded. The mania for speculation in houses of this class is fostered by reason of the city's seeming disinclination to take up seriously the problem of providing houses for workingmen. Earlier in the season considerable enthusiasm in this direction was manifested by the Board of trade, and plans were secured from Messrs. Stewart and Witton, which, however, have since been temporarily shelved.

The great demand in Hamilton at the present time seems to be for medium priced and centrally located houses. So far but little has been done to meet this demand, and people are living on the outskirts of the city, on the mountain, or in Dundas and neighboring towns, and are dependent upon a precarious street railway service for reaching their daily work.

The new terminal station being constructed by the Cataract Power, Light & Traction Company on King street east is attracting considerable attention in Hamilton, and promises to relieve in no small measure the rather untidy appearance of that section of one of Hamilton's principal streets. The new station, into which will be carried all the electric lines now running into the city, has been designed by Chas. Mills, of Hamilton, and is constructed of Indiana limestone over reinforced concrete. The cost of the new station is estimated at $500,000. the Canada White Company being the contractors To the rear of the station, a new vaudeville theatre, known as "The Bennett,'' is being constructed by E. C. Horn. The structure is of red brick, and premises to add much to the attractiveness of the new pile of buildings.

Messrs. Stewart & Witton have designed the new Armories on James street north, which are now being erected at a cost of $250,000. Red brick with stone trimmings are the materials being used. The same firm have drawn up plans for the Herkimer Baptist Church on Lock street, to cost $23,000. The new

structure will be of Gothic architecture, with a Sun-(lay School in the basement. In the line of public buildings, Messrs Stewart & Witton have in hand designs for the Home for Incurables, to be built adjacent to the House of Refuge, at a cost of $30,000; the Isolation Hospital, to cost *75,000, and also a new building in connection with the Home for Consumptives, at a cost of $10.000. In connection with the Sanitarium an infirmary is also being erected from plans drawn up by the same firm at a cost of *5,500, the gift of Mr. J. J. Grafton, of Dundas. Plans for a new school building have also been accepted by the Separate School Board although the actual work of construction will not commence until next year. Messrs. Stewart & Witton have also in hand numerous dwelling houses, ranging in value from $1,000 to $12,000, the majority of which, however, will cost from

$6,000 to $8,000.

One of the finest residences to be put up in Hamilton and vicinity this year will be that of G. D. Smith M.P.. at Winona. Messrs. Munro & Mead have drawn up the plans, which provide for a stone structure to cost *20,000. The same firm have designed extensive additions and alterations to the Hamilton Club Building, at a cost of $35,000. They also have in charge alterations on the Commercial Club Building, to cost $10,000. The same architects have drawn up plans for a Sun day School for Knox Presbyterian Church at Dundas, which will cost $15,000. Dundurn Park is receiving some attention from the city authorities, and Messrs. Munro & Mead have drawn up plans for a new Art Gallery at Dundurn Castle and a new pavilion for the Park. They have also in hand the plans for a new four-roomed High School for Grimsby. The structure will be of stone and cost in the neighborhood of $4,000. The same firm have also designed numerous up-to-date dwelling houses for the city and vicinity 

A two-storey addition to the Westinghouse premises has been designed by Mr. Charles Mills, to cost $5O,000. The accommodation will provide for 200 extra men. The firm also are increasing their office building accommodation, and have commenced a three-storey enlargement of their plant Mr. Mills has also designed alterations to the premises of the Canada Screw Works, Wellington street north, which will cost $125,000. The Landed Banking & Loan Company have also secured from Mr Mills plans for a large reinforced structure to be erected at the corner of Main and James street south. The same architect has planned a new branch of the Bank of British North America for Barton street near Fullerton avenue.

Prominent among the recent additions to Hamilton's commercial strength is the Berlin Machinery & Tool Company, of Beloit, Wisconsin,, who are building an extensive plant east of Lottridge street. Three large factory buildings and several smaller structures are in process of erection and will render possible the employment of 500 men.

Mr. Stewart McPhie has under way a three-storey hotel on King street east, besides a fireproof store and billiard room for Mr. D. Aiken. Mr. McPhie is making a specialty this season of dwelling houses, costing about $2,000, with three or four bedrooms, cellar and complete plumbing. Mr. McPhie has also found an unusual call for cheap frame houses by the working classes.

A new fire station on Sanford avenue north, east of the Britannia ball grounds, has been designed by Mr. W. A. Edwards, and work will shortly be commenced.

Mr. E. B. Patterson is designing a good class of residences this season, a couple of examples of which are in process of construction on Barton street east.

Plans for the new Central Presbyterian Church have been prepared by Mr. John M. Lyle. of Toronto. The structure will be of classic architecture, brick with stone trimmings, and will cost $165,000.

