<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER			211



The next set is No. 28, by Mr. James Foulis, Ottawa. awarded tenth place. The author has evidently had strong ideas on the suitability of the style lie has adopted, which is English Renaissance. The Justice Building is a very dignified composition, nicely rendered and showing good knowledge of detail. The Departmental Block is also pleasing and suitable for office purposes. It shows evidence of study from a recent example in London, England, by Sir Aston Webb, hut is sufficiently original in treatment to escape being termed a mere copy. The bridge is also in keeping with the rest of the design.

No. 25 is by Messrs. Hutchison & Wood, of Montreal, being assigned eleventh place. This is rather an extravagant design, showing a great disposition to run to towers. The plans are expensive in arrangement and the lighting in places is rather good. The Departmental Building is the more pleasing, but has

somewhat of the city ball treatment.		The tower of

the Justice Building is	unhappy, but,	on the whole,

it evidences good Gothic character. This is another elaborate set of drawings with fine perspective views in a distinctly English style of draughting. 

No. 13 by Mr. Geo. W. Gouinlock, of Toronto (twelfth place), is somewhat disappointing, the elongated

 tower of Campanile	 proportions being rather

out of place. The perspective with this set is a sonic-what gloomy piece of rendering. The printing of the titles, however, is good.

In No. 7, by Mr. Perrault, of Montreal. there appears a strained effort to cover both the sites available with buildings — why, it is difficult to imagine. There is also an undue multiplicity of towers which, with the five Departmental and three Justice Buildings, shows that the author must have taken the word ''group'' to literally mean two or more buildings. This design was awarded thirteenth place.

No. 5 is by Messrs. Finlay & Spence, of Montreal, and takes fourteenth place. The authors have allotted three buildings to the Justice Department, the layout of the site being very good. The treatment in elevation is simple and shows good Gothic feeling in places, but the plans all suffer from an extravagant  arrangement of hall space. Fifteenth place has also been awarded Messrs. Finlay & Spence for a second set of designs, No. 4. These are after the style of Bruce Price, and savor of the Place Viger, Montreal. and the Chateau Frontenac, Quebec. The plan is rambling, as befits the style, but the scheme is extravagant. Tile general effect is very picturesque, with a charming sky line, this latter being enhanced by the delightful rendering which characterizes this firm's designs.

No. 27 is by Messrs. Melville & McKean, of Moncton. N.B. No name is attached. probably through modesty on the authors' ' part. It is somewhat indirect in plan, though character is shown in places. The drawings are not improved by the timid rendering.

Mr. J. B. McCrae, of Ottawa, has been given nineteenth place. The plans are straightforward and rather well arranged, but the idea of a vault in each room, which is the outstanding feature, is rather farfetched, especially in the Departmental Building. The  elevations are a monotonous repetition of the existing buildings on Parliament Hill, to carry out which would be highly unfortunate. Beautiful as these

buildings may be, there are better phases of Gothic and better treatments, while it would be even better to adopt an entirely different style than to copy what is already overdone. A little variety in architecture is better than endless repetition.

No. 16. by Messrs. Horwood & Taylor. of Ottawa. has been placed twenty-first. It is uninteresting and rather too commercial a conception. The authors have evidently an exaggerated idea of the amount of hustle there is in a government office, as in the Departmental Building they have provided no less than eighteen elevators anti six staircases. This is certainly luxurious.

It is a pity from a critic's standpoint	that any limitation of style was suggested, as no artist would say that similarity is essential to harmony. This will readily be acknowledged on an examination of the winning designs, none of which has anything in common with the existing buildings. Also, if reference were made to any modern Justice Building that has been erected in America. Britain or Europe, it would be difficult to find any example that has been rendered in any other style but classic. this being without doubt  the only medium through which the necessary impressions and grandeur essential to courts of law can be interpreted.



Taken altogether, the exhibit is good and shows that Canada has within her borders many good architects who are capable of carrying out such a great scheme with character and individuality. It is to be hoped that the Government will show discretion in the ultimate carrying out of the work aid that some satisfactory scheme will be arrived at whereby the successful

 architects will he assured that	their work will not

be ruined by poor interpretation. It might be suggested that a Board of Advisors be selected. composed of authors of the winning designs, who would be consulted from time to time on the preparation of the

	working drawings and on matters	 of detail. When

buildings of a national character are erected it is only right that the people should be assured that they have the approval of those most capable of criticism. It is also to lie hoped that the exhibition will help to raise the status of the profession and open the eves of the general public to the work of the architects of Canada ad incite in them an intelligent interest in the execution of their public buildings.





It is expected that a greater number than the 216 who forwarded plans for The Hague Palace of Peace will have competed. London has supplied at least fifty competitors.

A.	prize of 200 guineas goes to the winner, who will. of course, be entrusted with the task, of carrying out hi is design. The remuneration of the architect responsible for the construction of the hall will lie 4 1—2 per cent, on the total cost, or very nearly £40,000.





Mr. John M. Lyle has been appointed by the Architectural Eighteen Club (if Toronto as correspondent of that organization to communicate with the American Institute of Architects, who are endeavoring to bring into closer relations the many architectural associations scattered over the American continent.

