<doctype type="text">60	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



state of the markets apparently being the cause of abandonment. 

The Crescent Turkish Bath Company have decided to build a new bath, to cost $40.000, at No. 580 Dorchester street, near Drummond street. Mr. William Rodden is the architect. The governors of the Montreal General Hospital are proposing to demolish their existing premises and to erect a new hospital on the same site, at a cost of $500,000. Work has already begun on the new power houses, which is to cost  about $80,000. The James Alexander Company are to erect cold storage for butter and cheese in the Place Viger yards, next to the Canadian Pacific elevators. It is proposed to spend $4000,000 in equipping this storage plant. Messrs. Finley & Spence.

architects, are preparing plans for a new theatre, to be erected on St. Catherine street west. almost directly opposite the as yet unfinished Bennett's Theatre, and just in the rear of the Art		Gallery. The opening

is promised for January, 1908.

On the 4th of April a letter from the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was read before the

Montreal	City Council, in which	the Association intimated that they were preparing plans for city improvements and expressed the desire to exhibit these plans to the city authorities. No immediate reply was made. It is to be hoped that this deliberation means that the Council are preparing to enter into the matter serious, as the members of the Association, who have been devoting much of their time to the consideration of this subject, are some of the most capable men in the city.

the Temple Building, St. James street, which is



about to be demolished to make way for the Canadian Bank of Commerce Building, has heretofore been the headquarters for a number of firms of architects. These, as well as others from down-town, including Mr. A. F. Dunlop, Messrs. MacVicar & Heriot and Messrs. Ross & Macfarlane, are moving to the uprights <article title=" OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS " author="">OF CANADIAN ARCHITECTS.

So persistent seems the tendency on the part of builders of steel structures in Canada to employ American architects in preference to Canadian, that it has been deemed by the Ontario Association of Architects high time for some protest to) be made. Accordingly, when it became known that the Manufacturer's Life Association, through its committee, had appointed Mr. Donaldson, of the firm of Donaldson & Meyer, architect of their new building to be erected at the corner of Bay and Melinda streets, a letter of protest was addressed by the Association to Mr. James

F. Junkin,	managing director of the Manufacturer's Life. This letter read as follows:— "The Council of the Ontario Association of Architects desire me to express to you the surprise felt by architects in Toronto that your company should think it necessary to) employ a Detroit architect to) design your new office building, as we understand you propose to do.

There seems to be every reason why a company chiefly supported by the citizens of Canada should carry out the principle of not procuring outside of Canada what can be got at home, and there is no reason to question the ability of Toronto architects

to properly design and erect a twelve-story building. Neither the engineering skill nor artistic power

involved is different in kind from that which is practised every day in Toronto successfully.

"Opportunity is all the architects of Toronto ask for, in order to produce work as distinguished as anything in the cities of the United States. and perhaps you do not realize how much more interest will be taken in your work by the Toronto architect to) whom it comes as an opportunity, and how the consciousness that confidence is being placed in him makes a man excell himself.

"We do not put the question before you otherwise than as to your own advantage in the way of getting your work clone well, and faithfully, but there certainly is the other side to the question that the architectural development of Toronto. and of Canada, can only progress in the hands of her own architects. If they are balked of every opportunity to do their best they cannot develop as they ought, and the effect will be widely felt.

It lies with the capitalists of the city to give them that opportunity, and we appeal to you on that ground also to reconsider your purposes with regard to the choice of an architect for your new building, convinced that if you do you will not repent it. but will find it to your advantage in every way."

There seems no excuse whatever for time preference shown the American architect, except that lie has had greater experience. cc. Granted that such lie time ease to a certain extent, it may also be said on the other hand that, if Canadian architects have successfully constructed buildings of half a dozen stories, as they have in many eases in Toronto. why cannot they just as successfully build structures of double the height? It seems scarcely just to Canadian architectural talent to imply its inferiority by giving it what is in reality a subordinate position in conjunction with American architects, as has been done in the

past. It is generally contended that at in time case of Mr. Donaldson his previous accomplishments in building constructions include nothing which a dozen Toronto architects could not have done equally as well. The " associate'' compromise is merely a cloak four the

employment of	American	supervision,	the	Toronto

architect merely acting in a subordinate capacity.

It also frequently happens that the employment of an American architect is a superfluous expense to the builder to the extent of thousands of dollars. The Canadian associate must have his usual fee, over and above that of his American superior, and it might not be an exaggerated statement to say that the cost of a steel structure, thus supervised, is increased 10 per cent. because of the American architect and engineer's commission. Moreover, the tendency for American architects to prefer American material is natural. Consequently, it is not only to the interest of the builder himself but also of Canadian manufacturers in general that Canadian d architects be em-\

played for Canadian structures.

When the Tariff Commission was here, the Ministers were interviewed and did give some redress far American invasion, as a duty of twenty-five per cent. on a one per cent. basis of the total cost of the building was imposed. To protect Canadian architects, however, this one per cent. should be two per cent., which is the allowance of an architect for his plans.

