<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE " author="">

DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE.

Eight room frame house of "center hail" type. Main body of house is 29 feet and 6 inches by 38 feet. Basement walls are of stone. Arranged for furnace heat. First story is finished with oak except kitchen and pantry. Balance of house is finished in Georgian

EFFECT OF DURATION OF STRESS ON STRENGTH

AND STIFFNESS OF WOOD.

It has been established that a wooden beam which for a short period will sustain safely a certain load, may break eventually if the load remains. For instance wooden beams have been known to break after fifteen months under a constant load of but 60 per cent, of that required to break them in an ordinary short test. There is but little definite and systematic knowledge of the influence of the time element on the behavior of wood under stress, according to Trade Bulletin



































pine. Plain oak floors are provided for first story except in kitchen and pantry where maple is to be used. Second story floors are of quarter sawed Georgian pine. Mantels are provided for parlor and living room. Estimate cost $3,100.





Mr. A. E. Lewis, of Lewis & Company, plumbers, Belleville, Ont., has retired from that concern. The business will, however, continue to be operated under the old name.

No. 10, of the United States Forest Service Department of Agriculture.

This relation of the duration of stress to the strength and stiffness of wood is now being studied by the Forest service at its timber-testing stations at Yale and Purdue Universities. The investigation should determine: the effect of a constant load on strength the effect of impact load or sudden shock; the effect of different speeds of the testing machine used in the ordinary tests of timber under gradually increasing load; and the effect of long-continued vibration.

To determine the effect of constant load on the strength of wood a special apparatus has been devised by which tests on a series of five beams may be carried on simultaneously. These









Ensures Perfect Sanitation



STANDARD IDEAL Ware is manufactured after a process which makes the porcelain enameling virtually a part of the iron. Durability, Purity, and Beauty of Design have served to give STANDARD IDEAL fixtures a reputation which is a full warrant to any architect or builder to not only suggest but recommend this ware for residences or public institutions.





We make Baths, Lavatories, Sinks,

and other plumbing equipment.

SEND FOR. CATALOGUE.





The Standard Ideal Co., Limited

Port Hope, Ontario.



Sales Offices and Sample Rooms, 50 Colborne Street. Toronto,

and 128 West Craig Street, Montreal. Que.