<doctype type="text">214	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" WORK OF P. Q. A. A." author="">

WORK OF P. Q. A. A.

The Year Book of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects has just been issued, and is full of useful and interesting reading. The publication is growing rapidly, while the addition of several papers which were read before the Association during last session make it of more than passing interest. The work of the various committees is given in detail and shows that the Association is quite an active body. Moreover, such activity is sure to make an impression on the rising architects in the Province. Professor Nobbs' paper on ''The Architectural Revivals of the

XIV.	Century in England," read before the Ontario Association and the Sketching Club of the P. Q.

A.	A., is given verbatim, as is also a paper on ''A Statuary Qualification for Architects,'' by Mr. J. S. Archibald architect, read at the seventh International Congress of Architects, held in London, Eng. This latter is certainly worthy of examination. Mr. Edward Maxwell's paper on "Parks and Parkways" is an important contribution and will be appreciated by all who know Montreal arid its surroundings, as will also be a note on ''Diagonal Streets,'' by Mr. J. R. Gardiner. There are unfortunately no drawings of "old works'' published, as was the ease last year, nevertheless, a series of photographs effectually keeps up the interest in ''Old Work.''

The publication also contains a list of the educational facilities for architectural study in Montreal, a very desirable piece of information, by the way. The list includes McGill College and University, which provides a complete four years' course in Architectural subjects and confers the degree of Bachelor of Architecture, in addition to B.Sc. in Architectural Engineering. The lecture hours in the third and fourth years are, as far as possible, from 9 to 10 in the morning, an arrangement which enables partial students working in offices to avail themselves of the instruction. Such lectures will be found invaluable to students of the R. I. B. A. and P. Q. A. A. The work is under the charge of Professor Nobbs, A.R.I.B.A., and Mr. Cecil S. Burgess, A.R.I.B.A.

The "Ecole Polytechnique,'' which is affiliated with Laval University, awards diplomas in Engineering, the course including Mathematics, Drawing, Theory of Structure and other subjects required in architectural

practice. Monsieur Doumic, of Paris, is now in charge (if the architectural students and better results than ever are looked for.

The Council of Arts and Manufactures also conducts classes at Monument National, St. Lawrence Market, at 183 Congregation street, Point St. Charles and at the Angus Shops, St. German street. These (lasses are held in the evenings.

The Montreal Y. M. C. A. conducts a class in Architectural Drawing and Building Construction. the elements of ordinary building practice being systematically studied. Such information is certainly of great Service and it hoped that it will be found in future Year Books.

Good work has been done by the Association in trying to obtain the passage of a by-law through the City Council, regulating the erection of buildings on certain commercial and residential streets. Should this by-law become law the Association think it will undoubtedly 

be in the interests of the city and will also simplify the work of those trying to ascertain the regulations governing the  erection of buildings, as at present there is no system or method. The president, in his capacity of Building Inspector, has been trying to get the by-law passed and it is hoped that the incoming Council will do all in their power to help him. It is also recommended that something he done in regard to the regulation of electric work with compulsory inspection and possibly the granting of a license for electric contractors.

Although advertised for sonic the  past, only one candidate, Mr. H. R. Dowswell, has presented himself for the University scholarship. Mr. Dowswell, having fulfilled the requirements laid down by the Association. has been awarded the scholarship and is

now studying at McGill		University. 

	The City Improvement	Committee met ten the s

during the year as well as frequently, on other occasions for special interviews and deputations. The committee took active part in the controversy as to

 Mountain Look Ont., in which connection	it acted in line with the Park and Playgrounds Association, with the satisfactory result that the amenities of the Mountain have been properly respected in the terrace and shelter scheme, which was designed by Messrs. E. & W. S. Waxwell and superintended by Messrs. Marchand & Haskell. It may lie some the  yet, however, before this committee carries enough weight in public estimation to secure support in its larger schemes. Nevertheless, a satisfactory start has been made. 

The report of the P. Q. A. A. Sketching Chili shows that that organization fully justifies its existence and that much good work has been done since its organization. The membership too is constantly increasing. The various excursions, lectures and competitions have certainly been beneficial to the younger men of the craft in Montreal, as well as filled a great want in the architectural life outside the office. The program for the  ensuing winters' work is now in preparation.

The main features of the proposed plan for municipal improvements in Montreal, by the committee appointed by the P. Q. A. A., may be summed up under the following heads:

(1)	A main driveway, connecting the chief parks and squares, and also a river parkway. 

(2)	Diagonal streets, connecting the centre of the business section with the east amid west.

(3)	Expropriation of certain lots facing Pine avenue and Cedar avenue, to form part of Mount Royal  Park.

(4)	A civic centre between the river and the City Hall. 

Each of these main features should lie considered separately and their details should be gone into very carefully before adoption. However, the committee considers that the main ideas upon which its plain is worked out are correct.

Every possible assistance is also given in the Year Book to intending students of the  P. Q. A. A. a. feature which is sure to interest and he appreciated by alt such in the city and throughout the  Province. It is a pity, however, that the Year Book has not a greater circulation, but as it is yet only in its infancy as an official publication, the  future promises well.

