<doctype type="text;ad">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	47

public purposes connected with the profession of architecture, 01 towards the promotion of learning and education in connection with architecture.

The council shall have power to invest any sum not expended as above, in such securities as shall be approved by the Government of the Dominion of Canada or of the Province of Alberta, in the name of the body corporate and to change the same at will, and any income derived from such invested sums shall be added to and considered part of the ordinary income of the association.

The association may also use surplus funds or invested capital for the rental or purchase of land or premises, or for the building of premises to serve as offices, examination halls, libraries, museums, or for any other public purpose connected with architecture.

19. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the register in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and the by-laws, orders and regulations of the council.

All deeds of the association shall be signed by the president and secretary and sealed with the common seal of the association



Nothing in this Act shall authorize the association to impose any fees higher than the following: —Admission as student associate               $20.00



Each examination	

Annual fee                               

	Admission to practice	25.00

	Fines	5.00



<article title=" HOW A FIRM OF ARCHITECTS GOT IT'S NAME ON A BUILDING " author="">

HOW A FIRM OF ARCHITECTS GOT IT'S NAME ON A BUILDING.

Close observation on the part of a newspaper man in Boston several years ago revealed a striking device employed by the firm of McKim, Mead & White, the noted New York architects. The device, says the Pittsburgh Gazette-Times was an acrostic of names famous in history, literature and art by which the firm's name was to he engraved on the Boston Public Library. As may be observed, the arrangement defied literature, history and philosophy in arrangement, and this was the thing that attracted the newspaper man's attention. The names were conglomerated from all nations and ages into a seemingly neat ornamentation for t he fine building. Beginning at the top of a space to be devoted to names famous in the world in various lines were the following:— Moses,

Cicero,

Kalidasa, 

Isocrates,

Milton.

These names through their initials, formed the elling plainly "McKim.

first part of the aerostic spelling

A slight space appeared before the next list of names, which was:— Mozart,

Euclid,

Aeschylus

Dante.

The initials of these names brought out the second name of the firm, "Mead." Another slight space, and the following names appeared:— Wreu.

Herrick,

Irving,

Titian

Eramus.

Here was the name White" also engraved, the whole device bringing out t he firm name of ''McKim, Mead & White'' in connection with the world's famed men. It was in 1890, just before the building was completed, that the discovery was made and 

published. The list of names was changed.

<article title=" CIVIC IMPROVEMENT IN TORONTO " author="">

CIVIC IMPROVEMENT IN TORONTO.

The Toronto Guild of Civic Art has decided to employ Sir Aston Webb, the celebrated English architect to examine and advise with regard to the plan which the Guild has had prepared for the improvement of the city. The main feature of this plan is the construction of two thorough fares running diagonally from the centre of the city in a northwesterly and northeasterly direction to the city limits. The Guild has appointed a committee to raise the sum of $5,000 to defray the preliminary expenses in connection with the scheme

<article title=" INFLUENCE OF COLOR " author="">

INFLUENCE OF COLOR.

It was known of color from recent scientific experiments that it could produce or induce peaceful or maddening sensations. There was one well I—attested

a ace : lie believed the experiment was tried in Italy. People of unsound or intemperate minds were placed alternately in blue or red rooms. The result was that the blue rooms incited towards tranquility of the mind, the red rooms the reverse. The lunatic was calmed by the one and excited by time other. Therefore decorators had a moral force which they could employ, plus the aesthetic charm. To carry the principle in to practice, a gaudy public house might incite to drink, whereas a. quietly—decorated one might incite to restrain.—Sir W. B. Richmond.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL SHEET METAL WORK " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL SHEET METAL WORK





























Ask its to quote on all kinds of Cornices Finals,, Skylights, and special work, to architects detail, Our Cornice Department is equipped with the latest machinery, to turn out everything in Architectural Sheet Metal Work, at the lowest prices.

THE METAL SHNIGLE & SIDING CO. LIMITED PRESTON, ONT.

Branch Office and Factory Car. St. Catherine & Delorimier Sts. Montreal.

