<doctype type="text">194	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



		In connection with the modifi-

	The Height of	Buildings.

<article title=" The Height of	Buildings " author="">

way's plans for a new central station at Ottawa from a twelve to a ten storey edifice, it is understood that the change was made at the request of Sir Wilfrid Laurier. There is little doubt that the Premier takes an active interest in the question of high buildings for the Dominion capital and will, it is stated, shortly make representations to the City Council with a view to having a limit placed on the height of buildings. The Premier's objection apparently rests not only upon the belief that skyscrapers mar the artistic appearance of a city, but that he has also taken into consideration the danger of fire.

Regarding this latter ground for objection to high buildings the remark of Mr. Geo. W. Babb, president of the New York Board of Fire Underwriters, to the effect that "it is merely a matter of time until the sky-scraper district of New York will be destroyed by fire," has caused widespread comment. A diametrically opposite view is taken of the question by Mr. F. W. Fitzpatrick, of New York, executive officer of the International Building Inspectors' Society, and a recognized authority on fireproof construction, who, commenting on Mr. Rabb's utterance, stated that "while such a thing is not beyond the realm of possibility. it is highly improbable under present conditions and could, at slight expense, be made an utter impossibility. The skyscraper district of New York cannot be compared to anything there was at Baltimore or in San Francisco. In both conflagrations the tall buildings suffered by reason of the vast amount of poor buildings there was all about them. Fire found but comparatively little to burn within them and in a great many cases, though damaged themselves. they served as a bulwark, a protection to adjacent and more combustible buildings. In Baltimore. as a matter of fact, as soon as the fire reached the skyscraper district, small as it was, it burnt itself out in them and they actually saved the city beyond them, stopping the fire much as a dyke does the inrush of the flood tide.



"In New York the down-town district is immeasurably better built than is that of any other city. There are more tall buildings, and these. serving almost exclusively as offices, contain the minimum of combustible material. Their tall steel frames, protected and enclosed with imperishable brick and hallow tile fireproofing, give a fire in the contents of the building nothing of a structural nature to feed upon and destroy." 



It seems highly probable that the skyscraper problem will ere long call for specific treatment in Canadian cities. Toronto has been face to face with the problem more than once, and the public press has already voiced the ideas of at least a portion of the public in deploring an apparent tendency to make the vicinity of King and Yonge streets a duplicate of New York's skyscraper area. Winnipeg a couple of months ago was constrained to refuse a permit for a building of unusual height, while Ottawa is at the present struggling with its building by-laws, in which regulations governing the height of buildings will probably play no inconsiderable part.

At a meeting of the London

The Labor Party.<article title=" The Labor Party " author="">	Trades and Labor Council, held in that city on October 2, it was

decided to suspend the meeting of the Council as such and continue as a local branch of the Canadian Labor Party. Enrollment in the new organization, it is said can be made only with the distinct understanding that whoever is a member of any other political party must sever his connection with that party before being eligible for membership in that of Labor. Moreover, the doors of this latter are open to all, union or non-union, provided the applicant agrees to subscribe to the platform adopted—that of the Trades and Labor Congress of Canada — and stand for independent political action.

It will be remembered that on Good Friday last 600 representatives of labor gathered in Toronto, and with much eclat launched into the ocean of Canadian polities a new craft manned solely by labor. Since that time little has been publicly said upon the subject, hut the action of the London Trades and Labor Council is proof that the movement is still afoot, with prospects of presently assuming greater proportions.

There enters into the whole question of labor and capital in Canada. now more than ever before, the influence of that remote European element, strongly imbued with revolutionary ideas, which is flowing in a constant stream across the continent and settling like the sediment of a sluggish river at all points of its course The treatment of the Oriental races in Vancouver, we are assured, was not the work of organized labor but of a hoodlum element, which must eventually afford as difficult a problem for trades unionism to solve as for the employer of labor. This hoodlum element, we can well understand is swollen by the untutored peasant of Europe, who is incapable of understanding the principles and responsibilities of democratic citizenship. For his elevation legislative enactment can be of but little use. Moreover, the inflexibility of a party, all of whose members are forced to subscribe with machine-like conformity to the principles laid down by its chiefs and to abandon at the outset all claim to originality in matters political. gives some idea of the lack of magnanimity which may characterize the future conduct of the Labor organization.



There were on exhibition from <article title=" The Ottawa Public Buildings " author="">

The Ottawa Public Buildings.	    galleries

		  of the Ontario Society of Ar-



tists, Toronto, twenty-one of the twenty-nine sets of drawings submitted in the Ottawa competition for the Departmental and Justice Buildings. The exhibition. held under the auspices of the Ontario Association of Architects attracted considerable attention from local members of the craft. A review of these drawings leaves little room for doubt that Canadian architects have shown themselves quite capable of grappling with even such a large proposition as the erection of Government buildings. As the competition was chiefly one of suggestion, it has been advised that the best thing for the Government to do now is to call a second competition of finished plans and specifications from among those whose designs were awarded prizes or who were mentioned in the judges' report (Nos. 24, 12, 19, 30, 4 and 7), and to the winner of this latter competition award the whole contract,

