<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" THE CROOKED HOUSE " author="">

THE CROOKED HOUSE.

On the estate of Earl Dudley, at Himley Staffs, there is a curious habitation known as "the crooked house." It is altogether out of the perpendicular and slants toward the south end, which is heavily shored up with thick red brick buttresses. These peculiarities are the result of mining operations, the under stratum of the earth in these parts being completely honeycombed. The clocks on the walls, although absolutely perpendicular, as their pendulums testify, appear to be hanging sideways at a pronounced angle. A short glass shelf, one end of which appears to be a foot higher than the other, proves to be absolutely level, while in the tap-room is a table which is apparently slanting, but on which if round marbles are placed at the seemingly lower end they roll to all appearances up-hill to the top of the table and fall over with a bump.

<article title=" TOOK 1,600 YEARS TO COMPLETE CHURCH " author="">

TOOK 1,600 YEARS TO COMPLETE CHURCH.

At Troyes, in France, was solemnly inaugurated a church which has taken sixteen centuries to build, as it was begun in the third century, and was completed but recently.

This is St. Urban's Church, built by order of Pope Urban on the site of the house in which he was born. Only the foundations were laid during Pope Urban's lifetime, and though the building has long been consecrated the last remaining stones were laid this year. The church is a gem of Gothic architecture.

<article title=" A RARE COLLECTION OF FURNITURE " author="">

A RARE COLLECTION OF FURNITURE.

It is reported that J. Pierpont Morgan has acquired for $1,200,000 the unique collection of Jules Van Den Poreboom, which comprises furniture, pictures, arms, brasses, ancient engravings and chimney pieces. The collection is installed in the sixteenth century Dutch house at Anderlecht, Belgium, a replica of which will be constructed in New York State under the superintendence of Francois Malfait, an architect.  

The Don Valley Brick Works



LUXFER PRISM CO., Limited