<doctype type="text;ad">

beams are 2 by 2 inches in section and 36 inches in length, each under a different load. Their deflections and breaking points are automatically recorded upon a drum which requires 30 days for one rotation. The results of these tests extending over long periods of time may be compared with those on or



·	machines and in way safe constants, or breaking strength or limited deflections.

factor, derived from these experiments will give equivalent values at standard speed The tests also show concretely the variation of strength due to variations of speed liable to occur during the test itself. The results plotted on cross-section paper give a remarkably even curve as an expression of the relation of strength of speed of application of load, and show much greater strength at the higher speeds. A numerical expression of the law-, averaging all species, both wet and kiln-































<article title=" PLANS OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE SHOWN ON OPPOSITE PAGE " author="">PLANS OF DESIGN FOR MODERATE COST HOUSE SHOWN ON OPPOSITE PAGE.



The experiments of the Forest Service show that the effects of impact and gradually applied loads are different provided that the stress applied by either method is within the elastic limit of the piece under test. For example, a stick will bend twice as far without showing loss of elasticity under impact, or when the load is applied by a blow, as it will under the gradually increasing pressure ordinarily used in testing. These experiments are being extended to determine the general relations between strength under impact and gradual loads.

Beading and compression tests to determine the effect of the

speed of application of load on the strength and stiffness of

wood have already been made at the Yale laboratory. The bending tests were made at speeds of deflection varying from 23 inches per minute to 0.0045, and required from twenty seconds to six hours for each test. The woods used were long-leaf pine, red spruce, and chestnut, both soaked and kiln-dried. From the results are obtained comparable records for difference in speeds in application of load. A multiplication of the results of any test at any speed by the proper reduction

dry, gives the following table, which shows the increase in strength with the increase of speed of test:—

	Minutes to move	Ratios of Ultimate	Strength

	cross-head on inch.	  Compression.	Bending.

	350	100.8	100.9

	150	102.3	107.3

	.10	106.9	110.1

	5	113.8	118.7

	The first column, which	gives the number of minutes 

required to mave the cross-head of the testing machine over the space of one inch, is the reciprocal of speed. The second and third columns give the effect of this increase of speed upon compression and bending respectively, and show that strength increases with speed. The strength at the lowest speed is arbitrarily fixed at 100 as a convenient basis for comparison. The ordinary bending test speed for small specimens is one-tenth inch per minute, or, reciprocally, 10 minutes are required to move the cross-head one inch.

ARTISTIC FIRE PLACES

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames

Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room





FIRE DOGS



SCREENS

SMOKE GUARDS

WORK 01 EVERY

Kind AND

FINISH



SEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20.



CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Head Office and Works: TORONTO. ONT.



District Offices: Montreal, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland