<doctype type="text">186	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ing the purity of a life hidden away in religious seen S Ion; behind, the shadowy figure of a smiling girl holding aloft a bowl of bright flowers, emblematic 0:

the pleasures of the world.

A beautiful painting is "Tranquility," by G. A Reid. of Toronto. The dreamy restfulness of the green tones predominating in the picture and the vague outlines of the motionless stork, poised on stone in midstream, seemingly no less motionless than her mate stretched in a long low flight over the edge of the unrippled water, can be better felt than described.

Of other scenes of nature there are many examples.

notably, "On the Fraser River," T. 21. Bell-Smith:

"On a Backwoods Road," F. II. Brigden; "Dedharn

Lock,'' John Constable; "Dutch Winter Scene,'' A.

Van der Velde; "Early Morning," Ben Foster;

Landscapes, Jacobi; "October." Elizabeth A. McG.

Knowles; "Plowing Through Canterbury," C. M.

Manley; "In the Meadow, "II. Britton; ''A Peaceful

Hour," W. Cutts; ''Evening,'' G. Chavignaud; ''At

Play,'' F. S. Haines; ''In the Grampians, Scotland,''

R.	F. Gagen; ''In the Fields,'' C. M. Manley; "A

Sunny Day at the Island," 0. P. Staples.

For the historian there were many portraits of Canadian national celebrities, in chiding many loaned by Laval University, Quebec, not so well known perhaps, but, nevertheless, of more than passing interest. Of portraits there were numerous examples, including a recent likeness of 8. H. Blake, of Toronto, by E. Wyly Grier. In ''The Dreamer," a beautiful study of childish reverie, Mr. 0-rier has executed a striking portrait.

<article title=" CLOSER ARCHITECTURAL UNION " author="">

CLOSER ARCHITECTURAL UNION.

To consider the relations of the American Institute of Architects and its chapters to the various architectural societies throughout America and to formulate some scheme tending to a closer relationship in the future, the following committee has been appointed by the president of the American Institute of Architects :—Edward L. Tilton, 32 Broadway, New York; Louis C. Newhall, Boston, and C. C. Zantzinger, Philadelphia. It has been considered that the ultimate aims of the Institute and the various societies are similar and, although consolidation might be undesirable, if not impossible, much may be gained by a limited co-operation, so successfully tried in other countries, notably that of the Architectural Society of London and the Royal Institute of British Architects.

By a proportioning of the work among the different architectural associations, a conservation of energy would be effected and by a combination the influence of the profession would be greatly increased.

<article title=" CURIOUS CHURCH " author="">

CURIOUS CHURCH.

There stands upon a hill in the village of Uphill in the county of Somerset, England. a small and very old church, which is surrounded by caves in which the hones of all kinds of animals have been discovered. This historic place of worship, which looks down upon Uphill Castle and the village itself, was at one time the only place of worship for miles around.

For several years no Sunday services have been held within its walls, says the "London Tit-Bits,'' and the only time that the public is allowed to worship there is one night in the year—on Christmas eve—when the vicar of Uphill or some other clergyman officiates. There is a footpath leading up the hill to the church, but as the hill is a very steep one and the distance great, very few people visit the church. It is by order

of the ecclesiastical commissioners that it is opened to the public once a year.

Curious stories are told regarding this interesting edifice, one of which is to the effect that the church was purposely built on the top of the hill so that the preacher could feel convinced of the sincerity of the faith of those who accomplished The task of climbing to it. The church has been visited by people from all parts of the world. It is the only building in England probably in the world in which divine service is conducted only once a year.

<article title=" BLUE PR[NT DRYING FRAME " author="">

BLUE PR[NT DRYING FRAME.

When blueprints are required in a hurry the drying frame shown in the accompanying illustration

from the ''Railway Review'' will prove very useful.

A white pine latticed frame was constructed on which

a large piece of blotting paper is placed to receive the

wet print.

The wet prints on the upper side of the frame and































position of

frame in use	



































 

 



DRYING FRAME.

<article title=" DRYING FRAME " author="">



the intense heat of the radiator about 2 1-4 inches beneath the lower side made a specially strong construction necessary to resist the warping and buckling strains due to the difference in temperatures.

The frame is 48 inches long by 30 inches wide. It is composed of strips 3-4 inches wide, halved and screwed at all intersections and spaced 2 1-2 inches apart n centers. The recesses cut in each strip are bolted together in a manner so substantial that buckling is impossible. The frame is finished with shellac. The height above the floor is 32 inches when the table is down ready for service. The frame is hinged and equipped with hooks and eyes so that it folds back against the wall when not in use.



<article title=" SASKATCHEWAN PUBLIC BUILDINGS " author="">

SASKATCHEWAN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

A limited competition has been inaugurated by he Saskatchewan Government for the purpose of securing plans for the new Executive and Administrative Buildings, which it is proposed to erect at Regina the provincial capital. The competition is restricted to the following firms :—Messrs. Darling &

)

Pearson, Winnipeg and Toronto; Mr. Cass Gilbert, New York, U.S.A.; Messrs. Marchand & Haskell,



Montreal; Messrs E. & W. S. Maxwell, Montreal; Messrs. Mitchell & Raine, London, Eng.; Mr. F. IRattenbury, Victoria B C_ Messrs. Stone & Von Egmond, Regina. The competition is for a building to cost about *1,250,000. The competitors are guaranteed a fee of $1,500 each, the author of the premiated plan being awarded the construction of the building as well.

The assessors in the competition will be :—Mr. Bert-'am Goodhue, of Messrs. Cram, Goodhue & Ferguson, New York, and Mr. Percy E. Nobbs, Professor of Architecture, McGill University.

