<doctype type="text;ad">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	xiii

<article title=" A SUBSTITUTE FOR MARBLE " author="">

A SUBSTITUTE FOR MARBLE.

The lack of marble in Denmark has in the past led to many attempts to produce a substitute which would equal in decorative effect the natural product, and at the same time would not exceed it in cost. Some success has been achieved in the manufacture of a substitute in Sweden, but the thin slabs would not keep their shape. The veins were stiff and angular, and the soft transitions of color which made variegated marble a thing of beauty were lacking. An important advance, has, however, been made in the industry by a Danish master builder, who is producing a stone which is claimed to be of such delicate































































We manufacture everything in Sheet



Metal required by the builder.

Finish	in a wide range

Crosses	of stock patterns,

Cornices J	or to architect's detail.





Skylights

Fire-Proof Windows

"Herringbone" Steel Lath "Pancoast" Ventilators "Classified" Metal Ceilings Metal Roofing and Siding



Write us for quotations









the Metal Shingle &

Siding Co., Ltd.

Preston. Ont. and Montreal Que.

transition of tints and play of color that it is almost impossible to distinguish it from real marble. The claim is made that the article can be produced in any form and that it appears to have the durability of genuine marble, while the cost is about one-tenth.



Collapsible revolving doors differ from the ordinary revolving doors in the fact that instead of requiring operation by an attendant or other person to fold the wings of the revolving door together and leave an open exist space, the wings of the collapsible doors fold simply by the unusual pressure of a crowd of persons seeking exist. The circular walls are in lunged sections, the outer and the inner sections being also displaced by the unusual pressure.

STANLEY

A	Perfected Faultless Machine

LONDON

Largest Manufacturers of





SURVEYING

AND





DRAWING

INSTRUMENTS

in the world





Please send for our H 66 catalogue (post and duty free) and compare our prices with those of other

first-class makers.







Great Turnstile,

Holborn, London

ENGLAND







The Ideal Concrete Block Machine has more than price to recommend it to the careful buyer. It is not only a practical and powerful machine producing the very highest grade of Concrete blocks, but in speed, in quantity of out. put —in the profits earned at the end of every day— it absolutely excels. Moderate in cost, it enables the establishment of a profitable manufacturing industry with small capital. Equally





suitable for the largest plant.





IDEAL

(INTERCHANGEABLE)





Concrete Machines

VARIOUS SIZES





The only concrete machine working g on the Down-face principle, and protected by a basic Janet The only machine permitting practical use of rich facing material and coarser material for back of block.

There is no p art of the "Ideal machine that can ever break in use or need adjustment. So wonderfully simple a boy can operate it. Not a chain, spring or gear in its construction.

Beautiful catalogue, illustrating the entire line of Ideal Cement Ideal Block showing natural

Machinery. sent free on application	stone effect. Same machine

makes countless different IDEAL CONCRETE MACHINERY

		signs.

	COMPANY, LTD.	—	—

DEPT. A. L.	LONDON, ONT.

MUSSENS LIMITED

Sole Agents for Canada

Montreal, Quebec, Toronto, Winnipeg, Vancouver

