<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



purpose of raising the price of labor was held to be a conspiracy punishable by law; but times have changed, notions more humane and more in accord with real Justice have prevailed, and now in all civilized countries, the world over. workingmen are permitted to unite together for their mutual protection, and legislation has intervened to sanction such rights,

''A conspiracy in restraint of trade,'' says section 516 of our Criminal (lode (496 of new code), ''is an agreement between two or more persons to do or procure to be done any unlawful act in restraint of trade.

Section 517 (496 of new code):-- ''The purposes of a trade union are not, by reason merely that they are in restraint of trade unlawful, within the meaning of the next preceding section.

Section 518: ''No prosecution shall be maintainable against any person for conspiracy in refusing to work with or for any employer or workman, or for doing any act, or causing any act to be done, for the

purpose of a trade combination, unless such act is an offence punishable by statute.''

Then comes section 520, which contains the enumeration of such combinations as ale in restraint of trade and as such prohibited by law, which said section ends with the following special reservation: -- "Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to combinations of workmen or employes for their own reasonable protection as such workmen or employcs.

Justice Saint-Pierre's deductions from the above bearing on the present ease were as follows

''It being shown that the journeymen plasterers were doing nothing but that which they hail a right. to do ill Joining together for the purpose of obtaining an increase of wages, the most rigid logic ought, in my opinion, to bring us to the conclusion that if the action of the employes was lawful in making such a demand, that of the employers was equally lawful when it is shown that all they did was simply to club together in order more effectually to oppose it.

''I might add that it is incorrect to state that a general boycott was decided upon by the master plasterers against the journeymen who were members of the union. I find, on the contrary, that under the agreement each individual member of the association was free to employ any one of them at the recognized wages of 33 1-3 cents per hour. I have no hesitation, therefore, in deciding this first question in favor of the master plasterers. The next question struck me at first as being more difficult in its solution than that just disposed of. Could the master plasterers lawfully bind themselves by means of the penal clause which was to be the sanction of their mutual agreement? 

''In France opinions are divided on this point. The difficulty in the way of accepting such penal clauses as a means of binding the contracting parties together has its origin in the very nature of the contract itself. The penal clause being only incidental and subordinate to the coalition or combination must necessarily fail and disappear, if it so happens that, at a given moment, the main contract is itself dissolved. Now it is of the very essence of contracts of this sort that any one who joins in it may withdraw from it at any time, and thereby put an end to the main contract so far as he is concerned by the mere expression of

his will. What becomes then of the penal clause, which is but an incident of the main contract? Can it subsist after the main contract, of which it formed part, has ceased to exist?

''I find, however, that the objection pointed out by the French jurists is not in the way of a proper solution of the question as I now have before me. The defendants, as a matter of fact, never withdrew from the coalition. They never notified their co-subscribers that they had changed their mind. They never claimed back their five hundred dollar note. Without giving notice to any one, without a word of warning they simply yielded to the strikers' demand. Under those circumstances it is clear that they thereby rendered themselves liable alit] that they submitted to the obligation of paying the penalty which was to be the price of their defection. This note of $500 was given to represent liquidated damages. The evidence shows that the damages suffered by the members of the Master Plasterers' Association as a consequence of defendants' defection were far in excess of the amount now claimed from them. The inscription in-law and the idea to 1 he merits are, therefore, dismissed, and judgment will go for time plaintiffs for time sum of $500, with interest and costs, as prayed for ill the declaration." 





BOOK REVIEW.

The Stone and Brick Masons' Edition of ''The Building Mechanics' Ready Reference'' Series has just come to hand. The author is II. G. Richey, Superintendent of Construction United States Public Buildings. Mr. Richey has attempted to give to the brick and stone mason a book that can be consulted as a work of reference for everyday use. Tables of various kinds for reference and for quick computation are among the most satisfactory features of the volume. All problems have been illustrated with cuts so that the author's ideas can be readily understood. An attempt has also been made to avoid as far as possible introducing the reader to long and laborious methods. The Building Mechanics' Ready Reference Guide, Stone and Brick Masons' Edition, by H. G. Richey, Superintendent of Construction United States Public Buildings; 16 mo., vx., 231 pages, 232 figures; Morocco, $l.50 net. Publishers, John Wiley & Sons, New York.

The October number of ''Deutsche Kunst und Dekoration'' has reached us and is a striking model of the engraver's art. Exquisite reproductions of examples of sculpture, painting and architecture are followed by no less interesting examples of the work of MS. illuminators. The paper and printing are of the best, and time enthe make-up is a striking contribution to current architectural literature.





Marble is now being used in architecture in a broader and more dignified manner than was generally done thirty years ago. The nearer we keep to working as the Romans did, with as few colors as possible, the healthier will be the effect obtained. Young men should make notes of marble color combination they see, not only of old work, but of new, if only to know

