<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	21

centres, upon which was laid 1 in. cross boarding laid a diagonally, and covered with Eastlake galvanized  shingles.

The vertical side walls are braced with 2 in. x 6 in. diagonals. 9 in. x 6 in. caps, and 6 in. x 6 in. intermediate girths, as shown in illustration. with 2 in. x 8 in. vertical studs covered with 1 in. T. & G. sheeting.

The ends of the building are braced back to the end trusses by 3 in. x 6 in. struts, and stiffened by the galleries an(l rooms across the ends of the building. There is a promenade with a minimum clear width of 8 ft., completely encircling the skating area on the ground level, and a gallery of similar width at an elevation of 11 ft. above.

The skating area is 79 ft. by 176 ft.. giving 13,900 square feet of ice surface.

Office, lunch room, public dressing rooms and lavatories are provided on the ground floor, and a smoking room bandsmen's room and two hockey rooms on The gallery level, with a band stand in addition at an elevation of 1_3 ft higher above the gallery level.

The wind pressure is taken care of by two steel anchor straps 5/8 in. x 5 in., well bolted to each heel of each truss, and connecting by large plate washers to concrete blocks 2 ft. x 8 ft. x 10 ft., sunk 7 ft. below ground level.

The gallary is supported direct from the concrete foundation upon 6 in. x 6 in. posts, with 6 in. x 6 in. longitudinals, 3 in. x 8 in. joists 24 in cts., and covered with 1 in. T. & G. flooring.

The promenade floor at ground level consists of 1 in. rough boarding, with tar paper and 1. in. T. & G. flooring, all resting upon 3 in. x 8 in. joists in cts.. resting upon 8 in. x 10 in. sleepers placed on top of the concrete bases.

This promenade floor is thus 18 inches above level of ice surface, and dampness is prevented from penetrating by the use of the tar paper, with the result that no discomfort is felt by the spectators from cold feet, and the whole rink, by reason of its freedom from draughts and dampness. enabled the spectator with ordinary winter apparel to sit out a hockey match with absolute comfort.

The railings at floor and gallery level are close sheeting. 2 ft. 6 in. above the floor or 4 ft above the ice, which adds to the safety of the spectators from chance shots of the puck, and also protects them from cold air off the ice, and at the same time gives a very substantial and neat appearance.

The whole design makes a very complete unit, well worthy of imitation by other towns in Canada, and reflecting credit upon the designer, Mr. J L. Morris, C.E., and the Pembroke Rink Company. There are rinks in Canada to-day that have no margin of strength—one at Glace Bay blew down, one at Cobourg fell over like a pack of cards, one at Orillia crashed in 15 minutes after it had been filled to its capacity during a political meeting, and the habit of allowing a local carpenter to launch out as the designer of a roof with a wide span, that becomes subjected to snow and, wind loads that lie has no way of estimating or providing for should cease, and the sooner these daring but incapable designers be made to see themselves as others see them. the better it will be for all concerned.—John S. Fielding, C.E., in Engineering Journal of Canada.

<article title=" P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB " author="">P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB.

The second annual general meeting of the, club was



held at 5 Beaver Hall Square on the evening (If Wednesday, January 16th. The report for the year 1906 was submitted and adopted, as follows

The last annual meeting of the club was held December 29th, 1903, when the officers of the year were appointed. During the financial year from January to December, 1906, twenty-one weekly meetings have been held., four sketch design nights, six lecture nights, six discussion or debate nights, two book reviews, two exhibitions of work done, viz., of work done during the winter session, 1905, and one of work (lone during the summer of 1906.

On the invitation of the P. Q. A. A., the club were invited to attend a lecture by Mr. Baldwin on ''Some Board of Health Hospitals in Greater New York.''

During the summer the club held seven outings, four of these being visits to local work in course (If construction, the remainder being visits to Sault Au Recollect, Chambly and St. Genevieve, respectively.

The first annual dinner was held in the Oxford Cafe on November 28th.

Two visits were made to the Canadian Handicraft Shop by the courtesy of the Canadian Handicraft  Guild.

A water color class was also formed, but was abandoned after three meetings, owing to the difficulty in obtaining rooms.

Prizes were also awarded for work done during the summer, to the value of $32.50.

In the competition for the Canadian Handicraft Guild exhibition, the three prizes offered by the Guild were awarded, aggregating to $25.

The thanks (If the club for donations to the prize fund are also due to the P. Q. A. A. for $40 for summer work; to W. S. Maxwell for $1 5 for water color sketches, and to private members of the P. Q. A. A. for subscriptions paid or promised, amounting to $45, for winter competition work.

The membership of the club consists of twenty-two paying, besides a number of 11(111-paying members.

The following officers for 1907 were elected :—President, T. MacLaren, A.R.I.B.A.; Vice-President, Onthet; Treasurer, J. R. Smith; Secretary, Barwick; Joint Secretary, L. Labelle; Council, Messrs. Fortin, Ritchie, Rankine.

At a meeting on January 23rd Prof. Nobbs spoke on the subject of "English Architecture of the Nineteenth Century.''

Mr. Lamasnie addressed the club on January 30th on "Design in Stained Glass.'' After pointing out, with the help (If blackboard sketches, the forms to which leaded glass lent itself amid those which were reprehensible for technical reasons, the lecturer went (In to show the range of color motif of which the material was capable, and exhibited by means of samples the characteristic American treatment of glass, in which material full of brilliant mottlings and striations is carefully selected to take the place (If painting upon the glass.

At the meeting of February 6th, Messrs. W. S. Maxwell and Prof. P. E. Nobbs criticized the work sent in for the monthly competition. In class A—a design for the entrance to a subway—the first place was awarded to Mr. J. Roxburgh Smith. In class B, Mr. C. Burgess' design for a clock tower in perpendicular Gothic was the only design submitted, but was adjudged to be highly creditable.

