<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	- PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

	VOL XX.—No 237.	SEPTEMBER, 1907.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

Plans	by E. & W.S. Maxwell, awarded first prize in Dominion Government competition for proposed Department and Justice Buildings, Ottawa.







CONTENTS

Editorial -	-	-	-	-	- 165-166

Investigations of Structural Material by the United

   States Geological Survey	-		-		-	-	167-170

Fir St Congress of Canadian	Architects			-	 -		171-173

Our Illustrations - -	-		-		-	-	174-183

The Competitive Designs at	Ottawa			-	 -		184

Exhibition Art Gallery -	-		-		-	-	185

Closer Architectural Union -		-		-	 -		186

Curious Church - -	-		-		-	-	186

Blue Print Drying Frame -		-		-	 -		186

Saskatchewan Public Buildings			-		-	-	186

The Durability of Ceramic Tile		-		-	 -		187-188

Montreal Notes - -	-		-		-	-	189

"Eclipse" Roof Glazing	-		-		-		-

Electric Standpipes -		-		-		-		-	189

A Handsome Building	-		-		-		-		189

Some Essentials in	Reinforced	Concrete				Work		-	190

Reinforced Concrete	Chimney		Blown		Down		-		191

Papering the House		-		-		-		-		-	11.

Canned Paintings	-		-		-		-		-

Illuminating Niagara		Falls		-		-		-		-	x

Book Review	-		-		-		-		-		x

Wonderful Piece of	Mechanism					-		-		-	x

Acetylene Lighting	-		-		-		-		-		xii.

Ancient Carvings in	British		Columbia					-		-	xiv.

Working Overtime	-		-		-		-		-		xv.

<article title=" Exhibition Facilities Display " author="">

Exhibition Facilities Display The Canadian National Exhibitor Builders' for 1907 has passed into

Display.	history. Admittedly the greatest annual exhibition in America, perhaps in the

world, it will still bear considerable improvement, particularly in providing accommodation and encouragement for builders' exhibits. In point of natural situation a more suitable geographical site than that on which the exhibition now stands cannot well be imagined, but immediate steps should be taken to acquire more land westward. Differing street should be included in the present park area and also land to the westward of Dufferin.

Of equal importance with the need for more land acquirement is the necessity for providing accommodation for the display of apparatus and improvement in all that makes for greater comfort and more satisfactory sanitary conditions in the modern home. In the exhibition just closed the Machinery Hall and the Process and Manufacturers' and Liberal Arts Building were all utilized to house the displays in which builders and contractors are interested. If an architect desired to make a study of improved building facilities he had perforce to wander through three large buildings and search the open ground between to discover amid a buzz of power machinery or the music of a phonograph display the object of his search.

To the builder and contractor the Machinery Hall should have offered considerable attraction. As a matter of fact conditions prevailing there were far from satisfactory. The building is totally inadequate

for a satisfactory display of mechanical apparatus, and many firms, who would willingly have exhibited, were better facilities available, declined to do so under the present unsatisfactory conditions. Moreover, the constant confusion and noise made by one or two pieces of apparatus, that might well occupy a prominent place in the open air, are as annoying to the ear as is the sight of the slovenly shafting to the eye when looking overhead.

To one passing through the Machinery Hall the lack of arrangement and proper disposition of apparatus are woefully apparent. In this building are miscellaneously grouped power engines and machinery, heavy pumps and huge mill fixtures, side by side with the delicate mechanism of modern electric fixtures for the most costly dwelling house or the miniature reproduction of the City of London's Public Library, covered with a patent roofing material and on display in a tasty log cabin composed of asbestos logs. The incongruity of the various displays is amusing. Passing to the Process Building, a similar confusion reigns.

Of course it is only very recently that the building trade has felt the necessity for the taking of some definite steps in periodically having displays of apparatus of particular interest to builders and contractors. Last month there was held in Montreal the first Builders' and Contractors' Exhibition ever held in Canada, an affair very successfully carried out and apparently likely to become an annual event. The attendance was satisfactory to the directorate and the display extremely creditable. If men will thus

