<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ILLUMINATING NIAGARA FALLS " author="">

ILLUMINATING NIAGARA FALLS.

With light generated by its Own power the Falls of Niagara are now being illuminated. Lights aggregating 1,115,000,000 candle-power thrown from 36 great lensed reflectors clothed the tumbling water with an almost inconceivable grandeur. Twenty-one fifteen-inch and fifteen thirty-inch searchlights set in batteries scattered along the gorge and cliffs on thc Canadian side converge their rays first on the American Falls and then on the Horseshoe Falls. At first the light is white, turning gradually to a rose tint, then green, yellow and blue, until all thc colors of the rainbow appear to play on the foaming waters. At intervals all the lights are turned heavenward, their rays forming a great colored fan visible for many miles around.

The lighting was designed and the plant, the largest in the world, by W. D. A. Ryan, of the General Electric Company. The scheme of lighting the falls was conceived by Mayor A. C. Douglas, of Niagara Falls, the expense being borne by the business men of the city. The lighting scheme will be continued for at least thirty days, and perhaps permanently.

<article title=" BOOK REVIEW " author="">

BOOK REVIEW.

Of more than passing importance to contractors in reinforced concrete structure is "A Hand Book of Practical Calculation and Application of Reinforced Concrete." compiled and published by the engineering department of the Trussed Concrete Steel Company, Toronto. That there is a necessity for publishing such a work is indisputable in view of the rapidly growing field for reinforced concrete construction. The object of the present hand book, as set forth in the preface, ''is to present to the designer tables and information in such form as to he immediately available for use in actual designs, and at the same time to have these tables founded upon scientific formulae approved by our very best engineering practice." The work as presented deals mainly with the Kahn Trussed Bar, and by illustrations sets forth its advantages over other and more primitive methods of reinforcement.

Of particular technical value is a chapter on allowable stresses, methods of design. etc. By means of tables and diagrams the theory of reinforced concrete beam work is treated in an admirable manner. Following this section of the subject, details of floor construction framing between steel girders are given, including information on rectangular floor slabs. Not the least valuable pages by any means are those whereon appears a table showing the spacing of bars in inches for various safe live loads per square foot and also the safe live loads per square foot for hollow tile floors of various thicknesses. Following these appears a series of tables showing the safe total load in hundred weights uniformly distributed for concrete beams and also for reinforced concrete columns. Footing tables are also given, figured for column loads from 75,000 pounds to 600.000 pounds. Highway box culverts and girder bridges also come in for description and illustration, typical highway arch bridges being treated by means of tables and diagrams. A Final chapter, entitled ' ' Notes Regarding Erection.'' gives a brief outline of construction met hods. including information on placing concrete, removing forms,

finishing and waterproofing. "Hahn System Standards,'' Trussed Concrete Steel Company, London, Detroit and Toronto. Price, .$1.50.

A book that promises to be of considerable assistance to mill building contractors is that entitled ''Details of Mill Construction,'' by II. W. Morton. It must be admitted that heretofore attention has not been directed particularly toward the treatment of that line of work known as mill construction, and constructors generally will welcome a publication that promises adequately to fill the deficiency. In the present volume the author has attempted to bring forward in a simple way the general details and facts underlying this very important branch of work. To do this no

printed expla nation whatever a companies the twenty-five plates which compose the volume, the author evidently assuming that a careful study of these will give the reader a more satisfactory idea of mill construction than can be obtained by much de— printed

tail. ''Details of Mill Construction,'' by H. W. Morton. Publishers. Bates & Guild Company, Boston, Mass.

<article title=" WONDERFUL PIECE OF MECHANISM " author="">

WONDERFUL PIECE OF MECHANISM.

With a scroll saw, plane, a hammer and a common pocket knife, a one-armed cripple has made the most remarkable clock in the world, says a Cleveland dispatch in the Philadelphia North American. The maker is Marvin Shearer, of Akron, 0. Tm is a scenic artist, but his hobby is mechanics. his pet project for the last fifteen years has been to make a surpassingly wonderful timepiece, but it was not until disabled for daily work at his profession that he found the time. The clock is twelve feet four inches high, more than four feet wide and almost three feet deep. It contains 4,161 pieces of wood of thirty-seven different kinds. There are 192 pictures in or on the clock, all of which Mr. Shearer painted. The motive power consists of a water pump having a capacity of 200 gallons per hour, a one-half horse-power electric motor and several other electric appliances. The clock weighs 830 pounds, and is constructed in three sections. On the face of the top section are nine dials, seven of which give the time in three foreign cities and four American cities; one, standard time, the other the calendar dial, indicating all the changes of the moon, the month. the day and date. The weather signals are translated by signal flags on a revolving staff directly in front of the calendar dial. Thermometers, barometers and hydrometers, each tell its tale, and around the dials pieces of wood from each state, territory and foreign possession in the union are arranged, decorated with the coat-of-arms of each. On either side of the clock dial can be seen every man-of-war in the United States navy, arranged according to their class and speed, followed by the different squadrons in their official order Under the navy is shown a Passion history of Christ. All these pictures have their stated times of appearing, passing from view behind a screen. The middle section is by far the most beautiful. In the extreme top is located a miniature Niagara Falls. over which 180 gallons of water fall every hour. Both the American and Horseshoe Falls, are shown, with Goat Island in the foreground, and the sparkling water is illuminated by colored and changing electric lights, making a most effective water display. At each hour, as the clock strikes, the figures of Uncle Sam and the Goddess of Liberty appear from an elevator at the right, walk in front of the American Falls, pass through a gate that opens automatically, descend a flight of steps, continue their walk around the front of the falls, where they turn and bow to the audience Behind glass plates pass in review  pictures of all the presidents of the United States, and on each en(l a silhouette of Washington shows.

