<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" REMARKABLE UNDERPINNING " author="">

REMARKABLE UNDERPINNING.

Some remarkable underpinning is being done below the foundations of the retro-choir and lady chapel of Winchester Cathedral in England. A gradual settlement of this portion of the structure has been taking place for four centuries, and of late the results have become serious. Cracks have appeared in the masonry, walls have moved from the perpendicular, and two bad cracks have occurred in the roof. The trouble is due to inadequate foundations and insufficient buttressing. The footings rest on a grillage of beach timbers packed with chalk and flint, which is carried by a thin sheet of soft marl only 10 feet below the surface. Below it is a bed of soft peat and gravel 6 feet thick, which rests on good, hard gravel. The peat is full of water and its presence is the probable explanation of the original failure to carry the footings to the hard gravel. Under the direction of Mr.

T.	G. Jackson, the underpinning is being done in small sections. A hole is sunk close to the wall down through the peat and then a heading is driven under the old footing and the old timbers are removed. The lower part of the pit is sunk by a diver, as the water is too deep for ordinary methods of working, and it would be dangerous as well as very costly to pump the water out. When the hard gravel bed is reached, the diver covers it with concrete delivered to him in bags, which he slits open. After a few feet of concrete have been placed in this way, grout is forced into it through pipes. The concrete is carried up in this manner to such a height that masons can complete the underpinning with brickwork.



<article title=" SAVING WINDOWS " author="">

SAVING WINDOWS.



Sash frames, with sash weights, locks and trim complete, may be taken out of old buildings that are being taken down, and preserved just as good as new by screwing slats and braces on them, which not only keeps the frames square, but prevents the glass from being broken. Doors, frames and trims may also be treated in like manner.













			We are Headquarters for

HIGH GRADE UP-TO-DATE

ARTISTIC HARDWARE











Our wide range of designs, harmonizing with any style of architecture, combined with the real economy of life-long wear, affords complete satisfaction.



Let us figure on your next specification and you will be convinced,

THE VOKES

HARDWARE

CO. LIMITED

111 & 113 YONGE ST., — — TORONTO





ARTISTIC FIRE PLACES

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room

Fire Dogs

 Fenders

Smoke Guards

Interior Metal

Work of

Every

Kind and

Finish.

								SEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20.



CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Head Office and Works: TORONTO, ONT.

District Offices: Montreal, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland