<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" MONTREAL STREET RAILWAY TO HANDLE FREIGHT " author="">

MONTREAL STREET RAILWAY TO HANDLE FREIGHT.

Because of the increasing difficulty in securing craters to expeditiously handle freight in Montreal, the question of extending to the street railway the privilege of handling freight has recently been mooted in that city and has behind it the influence of many shipping houses as well as prominent builders and contractors. A resolution bearing on this subject was adopted a short time ago by the Montreal Builders' Exchange and was presented to the City Council. It read as follows:

''Whereas, it has been stated in the press that at the recent Council meeting on June 26 last, a petition was presented on behalf of leading city merchants, asking that the Council consider the desirability of permitting the Montreal Street Railway Company to handle freight throughout its city lines and connected systems;

''And whereas, the fact is indisputable that the congestion of freight, owing to lack of sufficient cartage facilities, offers a serious menace to the commercial interests of this city; and furthermore, that owing to climatic conditions, there is little probability of seeing any substantial increase in the present cartage facilities;

''Be it resolved, that this association representing the important public interests involved in the building industry of Montreal, cordially endorses the proposal to relieve the constantly recurring congestion of freight traffic, and respectfully asks the City Council to make the matter one of urgency at its next Council meeting, in order that an amelioration of the present state of affairs may be inaugurated without delay.''

Furthermore, the directors of the Builders' Exchange, in view of the fact that the matter of granting such a privilege to the street railway involved considerable difficulty, suggested:

''1.—Extending to builders and other large handlers of heavy freight, the privilege of having temporary sidings laid wherever the building or material is of sufficient importance to warrant it, thus avoiding all obstruction to passenger traffic. On smaller, or only temporary jobs, the use could be met by unloading on skids by means of air compressors, derricks.

01 other rapid devices. It should be borne in mind that for its own construction needs the street railway is already using large construction cars for handling heavy freight, such as sand, crushed stone, bricks, lumber, cement and structural iron, without hindrance to the passenger service, as the latter cars always have the right of way. This committee is not advocating the handling of small packages, as these properly come under the sphere of the express companies. After careful investigation, the committee doubts if the exclusive handling of heavy freight at night, as has been suggested in some quarters, is feasible or desirable, owing to Lie impossibility of securing night working gangs, and to the increased risk of accidents.

''2.—The maximum freight rates not to exceed the current rate for carload quantities charged presently by chartered cartage companies.

''3.—A fixed percentage of the gross freight receipts to accrue to the civic revenue.''

In response to the efforts being put forth by the Building Exchange and the city merchants, Alderman Lariviere has stated that he will in the course of a couple of weeks present a by-law authorizing tramway companies to carry freight in Montreal.



<article title=" SURVEYING AND DRAWING INSTRUMENTS " author="">

SURVEYING AND DRAWING INSTRUMENTS.

We are in receipt of a very complete and well-illustrated catalog of the surveying instruments manufactured by W. F. Stanley & Company, Limited, of London, England. The firm announces increased facilities for the manufacture of drawing instruments by reason of recent improvements in machinery, which have also rendered possible correspondingly reduced prices. The firm's comprehensive stock embraces every known article for use in office or field for the architect, engineer and draughtsman. Over 2,500 of such articles are catalogued.



<article title=" FORGED STEEL PIPE FLANGES " author="">

FORGED STEEL PIPE FLANGES.

Under the title ''Forged Steel Pipe Flanges,'' thc management of the ''American Spiral Pipe Works,'' Chicago, have issued a very tastily printed and illustrated catalog, descriptive of their manufactures their idea has been to place before the public not only a complete list of the standard flanges and a partial list of the various forgings that they manufacture, but also a short description of the more important features of the forged steel flange.







artistic FIRE places

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames

Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room

	Fire DOGS	INTERIOR METAL

	FENDERS	WORK of every

		Kind and

	Smoke guards	finish

SEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20.





CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

head Office and Works: TORONTO. ONT.

District Offices: Montreal, Halifax Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland