<doctype type="text">



to the care that the man in charge of measuring cement at the mixer takes in his measuring.

(14)	The reinforcement should be tested in accordance with the requirements of the American Society for Testing Materials for structural steel used in buildings.

(15)	The floors must be kept covered in warm weather with wet sawdust or wet sand for three weeks, beginning 24 hours after the concrete is placed. The longer the floor can be kept wet the better the result will be. In properly designed and constructed reinforced concrete work no expansion joints of any kind are necessary except in horizontal surfaces exposed to the sun.

(16)	All forms should be pounded with a mallet while being filled. this will exclude air bubbles and make the concrete more dense as well as giving better adhesion of the cement to the surface of the reinforcement

(17)	After the forms are removed no patching or plastering should be permitted until all surfaces have been inspected, and permission given in writing by the engineer. This makes every man on the job, from the foreman down to the most unimportant laborer, more careful as to the filling of the voids in the forms. While some small patching is generally necessary, the general appearance of the surfaces that need patching is the best indication of the quality of the hidden workmanship. Great care should be taken to prevent any of the false-work dropping upon finished concrete even if it is several weeks old, as it materially injures it to do so. The less the work is jarred while removing the forms the better. The jar of a hoisting engine and concrete mixer or other moving machinery should not be allowed to reach the setting concrete.

General state or city legislation, in accordance with the practice mentioned above, and fire, water and loading tests similar to the requirements of the Build-

Department of the City of New York, are, in the writer's estimation, absolutely imperative.

<article title=" REINFORCED CONCRETE CHIMNEY BLOWN DOWN " author="">

REINFORCED CONCRETE CHIMNEY BLOWN DOWN.

During the severe windstorm of August 11th, the new reinforced concrete chimney of the plant of the C. & J. Michel Brewing Company. at La Crosse. Wis.,





































<article title=" REINFORCED CONCRETE CHIMNEY BLOWN DOWN BY HIGH WIND " author="">

REINFORCED CONCRETE CHIMNEY BLOWN DOWN BY HIGH WIND.



which is now in course of construction, was blown down. The chimney, which was 150 feet high, had just been completed a few days before the storm, and the fact that the cement had not set is given as the reason for its blowing down. The chimney was built by a St. Louis company, and it was guaranteed to stand a hundred mile per hour gale. The greatest velocity attained by the storm was sixty miles an hour. The loss is estimated at $6,000. There was no insurance in the chimney.

