<doctype type="text">132	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and angles formed by the union of the floor and wall are about the only places from which it is not easy to remove all dirt by the most superficial washing. This slight difficulty has been remedied by the adoption of the so-called ''cove base," or hospital tile. With this tile along the baseboard, the angles and corners formed by the floor and wall are rounded out so that there is not the slightest recess in which dirt can be concealed.

When tiling first came into general use in bathrooms, it was the white tile that was nearly always adopted. To-day, however, advantage is taken of the decorative possibilities of the colored tiles which are just as durable and sanitary as the white variety. Everyone who has seen a tiled bathroom in which there is some artistic color effect, realizes at a glance

tional area of not less than 60 square inches and above the joists of which there is laid a solid timber floor of not less than 2 3-4' inches in thickness. All such floors shall be dressed and tongued and grooved." Wood posts used in buildings of this class shall not be of smaller sectional area than 100 square inches, except the posts in the top storey, which shall not be of smaller sectional area than 64 square inches.

"Elevator enclosures and other partitions in buildings of this class must either be made entirely of incombustible material or with not less than 2 3-4 inch spliced wood forming partion, and the use of wood furring or wood lath will not 'be permitted. The roof of mill constructed buildings must he covered with incombustible material and be made similar in all respects to the roof specified for ordinary construction.





























<article title=" ORDINARY CONSTRUCTION " author="">

ORDINARY CONSTRUCTION,





























<article title=" MILL OR SLOW-BURNING CONSTRUCTION " author="">



MILL OR SLOW-BURNING CONSTRUCTION



the advisability of relieving at least to a certain extent the glaring monotony of all white floors and walls.



WAREHOUSE BUILDINGS.

In building a modern warehouse attention must be paid to the three classes of construction, commonly known as "ordinary," "mill" and "slow-burning" construction. All are intended to safely sustain a load of 100 pounds per square foot of floor space, although this capacity may be indefinitely increased as the purposes for which the building is intended vary.

The term "ordinary construction" is defined in the revised Toronto building by-law as meaning "a building with wood joists and wood or iron posts, columns and beams, which are not protected with fire-resisting coverings, but having the external and party walls constructed of brick, stone Or some other incombustible material, the roof of such buildings being covered with tin, iron, copper, slate, tile, felt and gravel or other material of an incombustible nature."

On the other hand, "mill construction" is defined as meaning a "building in which all the wooden girders and joists, supporting floors and roof, have a sec

Where planks are set on edge and are not over two inches thick, with a matched wearing floor above, the tongue and groove or splice may be omitted; in such cases the planks shall be well spiked at intervals of 15 inches with spikes of sufficient length to penetrate two-thirds the thickness of the adjoining plank.

The term "slow-burning construction," according to the by-law, "shall apply to all buildings in which mill construction is used and in which the structural members, which carry the loads and strains which come upon the floors and roofs thereof, are entirely enveloped in incombustible material. This class of building shall have double floors and roof, with one thickness of asbestos paper, weighing not less than 14 pounds each per 100 square feet, between the upper and lower thicknesses of floors and roof. The under side of all floors shall be protected in the same manner as the wood structural members.

Ordinarily the two latter classes of construction are regarded as practically the same, distinction being generally made between the first two only. The joists in all cases have a span of 20 feet from one bearing to the other and in ordinary construction are 3 x 12 inches, spaced 12 inches centre to centre, while those

