<doctype type="text;ad">11.	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.

The Schultz Brothers Company, I Limited who were recently incorporated by the Ontario Government have decided on the establishment of a sand lime brick plant at Brantford. The capacity of the plant will be 30,000 brick per day, and the company expect to have same in operation by May 1st. The initial cost of the works will be $40,000.

The plasterers of Peterboro who intend going into the lathing business will have to deal with some unexpected difficulties, according to reports. The plasterers in the past have been in the habit of using rough I lumber belonging to Contractors for making mortar pits, piling material on, and any other purpose for which it was needed, never thinking of paying for use of same. This season, however, the contractors are not going to allow this, and will compel the plasterers to supply their own material.

The Executive Committee of the Canadian Association of Master House Painters and Decorators held a meeting on March 7th and arranged the programme for the convention to he held at London, July 25th to 27th next, In the absence of both President Brooke and Vice-President Reynolds, ex-President McKenzie, of Hamilton, occupied the chair. In the evening the Toronto branch of the Association gave a complimentary banquet to Mr. Stewart N. Hughes in honor of his election to the presidency of the International Association at the recent convention held at Boston. Mr. J. W. Knott, on behalf of the Toronto Association, presented Mr. Hughes with an address and referred to the honor conferred, not only on him (Mr. Hughes), hut upon the Toronto and other Canadian branches. Mr. Hughes replied, thanking his friends and assuring them of his desire to uplift the craft in every possible way.



<article title=" British Trade Supplement " author="">

British Trade Supplement

The Publishers of "The Canadian Architect and Builder" have arranged to furnish information respecting British Exporters of Building Materials and their goods advertised in this paper, and will keep on file at their offices, Board of Trade Building, Montreal, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, and 720-721 Union Bank Building, Winnipeg, Cataolgues, Price Lists, Etc.



Catalogues will be forwarded to Architects and Building Supply Houses in Canada on application.









GILLETT AND JOHNSTON

Clock Manufacturers

and



Bell Founders



CROYDON, ENGLAND ST. GEORGE'S

Makers of the Clocks and Bells at Toronto City Hall, MONTREAL, BELLS.



London Cathedral (Ont), St. George's Church, Montreal, Ottawa Houses of' Parliament, City Hall, Victoria, B.C., and thousands of others in all parts

of the World.







GEORGE WOOLISCROFT & SON, LIMITED

Will be pleased to receive enquries from Canadian friends for their numerous manufac



tures, which include.

	TILING	MOSAICS

	Roof, Floor	Floor and Wall.



FAIENCE AND TERRA COTTA

For Internal or External Decoration



Falence and Briquette Fireplaces, Sanitary Goods,

Red and Blue Staffordshire Goods of Every Description.

CHURCH DECORATION done in all its branches stained Glass, Wood

Carving, Marble and Iron Work. Fresco Painting, Delia Robia, etc. Venetian

and Ceramic-Mosaics for Walls and Floors.



Agents for Montreal and Province: Mr. J. F. M. Thomson,

33 St. Nicholas Street, Montreal. Agents for Toronto: Robinson &

	Rowell, 8 Albert St., Toronto	Winnipeg Agents will be published later

GOLD MEDAL ST. LOUIS EXHIBITION.