

<doctype type="text;ad"><article title=" OBITUARY " author="">OBITUARY.

It is with much regret that we record the sudden death, of Mr. James C. Dumaresq, the well-known architect of Halifax, Nova Scotia. Mr. Dumaresq had been in poor health for some weeks, but his death was totally unexpected.

He was born in Sydney, C.B., sixty-six years ago, received his education at Horton Academy, and lived his entire life in the Maritime Provinces.

For thirty-six years he practised his profession in Halifax, and for ten years in St John. Many important buildings throughout the Maritime Provinces, including the Legislative Buildings at Fredericton, and a number of banks were designed by him and built under his supervision.

He was gifted with social and moral qualities of a high order, and was actively interested in religious movements in connection with the North Baptist Church, of which he was for many years a deacon.

He is survived by his wife, one son, Mr. Sidney P. Dumaresq, who was associated with his father professionally, and four daughters. 



NOTES.

The Calgary Plumbing & Heating Co., Calgary, Alta., have dissolved.



Honeyman, Haultain & Co., have commenced a builders' supply business at Regina, Sask.



J. Dechene and Jette, stonecutters, of Montreal, Que., have registered their business as Dechene & Jette.



The Imperial Coal Company, Beersville, N.B., have announced their intention of establishing a brick plant with a capacity for 20,000 brick per day.



Mr. A. J. Bennett, architect, of Winnipeg, Man., and formerly of London, Ont., will probably open a branch office at Port Arthur in the near future.



A branch of the Structural Building Trades Alliance of America, has been organized in Toronto which is composed of all branches of the building trades. An executive committee composed of a representative of each affiliated local union will

act as a managing board, before which all propositions to strike must be placed.



The Toronto Plastering & Supply Company, Toronto, which was incorporated about a year ago, have gone into liquidation. Mr. Osler Wade was appointed assignee.



The last services that will ever be held in Knox church Toronto, were conducted on January 19th. The building which was erected 85 years ago will be demolished to make way for the erection of additions to the premises of the Robt. Simpson Company. The corner stone of the sunday school building of the new Knox Church, which is being erected on Spadina avenue, will be laid on January 26th by his Honor Lieutenant-Governor Mortimer Clark, and the church services will be held in that building pending the completion of the church.



Mr. Frank W. Macey, who has within the past year opened up an architectural office in Vancouver, has introduced into that city a style of exterior house finish and decoration which s new in Vancouver. He has just completed a house for Mr. J. R. Waghorn, finished outside in old English half timber work, the lower part being roughcast stucco work, and the upper storey half timber, filled in between with stucco. For himself Mr. Macey has also built a handsome roughcast stucco work house of old English design. Both houses are added to in beauty and effect by overhanging gables, the verandahs being kept under the main roof. This design is exceedingly attractive and suited to Vancouver.



Architects and others interested in office buildings, hotels, and other structures requiring the Cutler Mail Chute, will be interested to learn that the Cutler Mfg. Company has made arrangements to manufacture its latest and best form of apparatus in the Dominion, under its Canadian Patents. The New Cutler Mail Chute, Model C," is made with its entire front in the form of doors secured by locks. This makes the Chute practically an extension of the box to the top of the building, all parts under a lock but instantly accessible to an authorized



person. Although this construction is somewhat more expensive than the earlier form, the saving in duty will permit it to be sold at actually less than the Standard Cutler Mail Chute used to cost.





ARTISTIC	PLACES

Properly Secured with Ornamental Iron Frames

Make a Handsome Finish to Any Room





Fire Dogs



Screens

Smoke Guards _____	___ SEND FOR BULLETIN NO. 20.

Interior Metal

Work of Every

Kind and

Finish.



CANADA FOUNDRY CO., Limited

Head Office and Works: TORONTO, ONT.



District Offices: Montrea1, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Rossland