<doctype type="text;ad">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



day's work, or for any other purpose longer than thirty minutes. Unsafe or unfinished panels must be removed before starting new ones.

All centering must be self-supporting and provisions are made that centering shall not be removed for from ten to twenty days, according to the season of the year.

All structural concrete exposed to or worked in the outer air shall not be worked when the temperature is 32 degrees F. or less. Any concrete liable to be exposed to frost or snow before it has attained its permanent set must be temporarily protected. Centers

on such work cannot be removed until the season is advanced beyond the probability of a frost.

Provisions are made for elaborate tests of all concrete work, specimens being submitted with reports to the building department for permanent file.

In the use of concrete footings provision is made that the bed shall not be less than twelve inches thick per course. Permission is given for the use of armored or reinforced concrete for footings when deemed necessary.

The code provides that the cement to be used in all building construction must be of the standard



We manufacture everything in Sheet Metal required by the builder.





Finials

 In a wide range

Crosses	of stock patterns,



Cornices J or to architects detail.



Skylights Fire-Proof Windows "Herringbone" Steel Lath "Pancoast" Ventilators "Classified" Metal Ceilings Metal Roofing and Siding



Write us for quotations









the metal Shingle & Siding Co., Ltd.

Preston, Ont. and Montreal. Quo-

STANLEY

LONDON

Largest Manufacturers of



Surveying and Drawing Instruments

in the world

 









































Engineer's Level

The Strongest and Most Compact Level Yet Made. Will Keep in Adjustment a Lifetime.



Please send	for our H 66 Catalogue (post and duty free), and compare our Prices with those of other First-Class Makers





W.	F. STANLEY & CO., Ltd.

Great Turnstile, Holborn	LONDON, w. c.

Show Roams: 286 High Holborn W. C.







All That a

Concrete Machine

Should Be

Every separate feature of the Ideal Concrete Block Machine has been brought to the highest possible standard of labor saving and profit making. The result is a machine of little cost, but wonderful money-making possibilities.



The Ideal Down-Face' principle s the only practical, satisfactory and rapid process of concrete block manufacture. and is protected by a basic patent No other machine on this principle can be





legally made, sold or used.





IDEAL

(INTERCHANGEABLE)





Concrete Machines

VARIOUS SIZES



The Ideal Concrete Machine is made practically universe in variety of size, shape and design of blocks by interchangeable accessories and attachments.



Marvelously simple, durable and strong. Not a spring, chain or gear In its construction. Can never wear out or break in use. May be operated by a boy



Ideal' catalogue, a practical encyclopedia of concrete block manufacture, sent free on application Of special value to builders and dealers in building

materials.





IDEAL CONCRETE MACHINERY

COMPANY, LTD.

DEPT. A. H.	LONDON, ONT.

MUSSENS LIMITED

Sole Agents for Canada

Montreal, Quebec, Toronto, Winnipeg, Vancouver

Ideal Block showing natural stone effect. Machines produce endless variety of designs and blocks of any size within capacity. Block, Brick and Sill Machines. Mixers, Ornamental Molds, Etc.

