<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



resisting material it makes an excellent hearth, as it cannot be burned by red-hot coals. It is impervious to moisture, and, unlike marble, it is so non—porous that it can not absorb dirt or dampness. Ink spilled upon it will leave no stain, while it is difficult to remove such stains from marble.

Many centuries' experience has shown that the durability of the tile enables it to withstand not only knocks and blows but also the insidious wear and tear of time and constant use.

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">

MONTREAL NOTES.

The total assessed value of real estate in Montreal is estimated for the current year at $230,000,000. The value of the city's real estate has thus doubled in fifteen years and has increased by twelve million dollars during the past year, as compared with an increase of twenty millions during the previous year. The percentage due to the municipal exchequer as taxes has two very strong claims being made upon it. The roads, in spite of the fact that during one-third of the year they are covered with snow and therefore not subjected to any appreciable wear, continue nevertheless to be the cause of loud complaint. The other demand is for more adequate protection in ease of fire. Montreal has never been visited by any extensive sectional fire, but allegations of inefficient water supply, on several occasions when destructive fires have broken out, have manic the public uneasy on this score. The breaking down of pumps and the non-delivery of new ones ordered have repeatedly left sections of the city without water to drink or to flush the drains. One might suppose that the strongest plea in favor of a better water supply should lie based on the discomfort and disease occasioned by water famine (as if water should ever be scarce in a land of innumerable lakes and mighty rivers !) . Time most active protest, however is being made by business associations, such as the Montreal Board of Trade, the Chambre de Coinmerce and the Canadian Manufacturers' Association. It has even been resolved by these bodies to engage independently the services of a consulting engineer to examine into the state of matters and make suggestions for improvement. The whole question of water supply is one on which the management of the city cannot be congratulated since it has never been given the attention due to this first necessity of life and most essential protection against disaster.

Two new schools to be open for the new session are the Delorimier Protestant School at Fairmount, which has cost $15,000, and St. Michael's School, at the corner of Drolet and Boucher streets, at present to accommodate 350 pupils and later on to be extended for

750.	Both are constructed of brick with stone dressings on a basement of Montreal stone.

The much delayed fire station in Berthelet street is now promised for Christmas. The site for the ten storey Eastern Townships Bank and the Canadian Bank of Commerce are still holes in the ground. The Canadian Transport Company's large building in McGill street is rapidly mounting skyward. Bennett's vaudeville house is now in operation. A new theatre almost directly opposite the last is now rising above he ground. The sash and door factory of V. E. Traversy in Papinean road was destroyed by fire on August 16.

Mr. Max Donmic, from France, has been appointed

Professor of Architecture at the Ecole Polytechnique, affiliated to Lava] University

<article title=""ECLIPSE" ROOF GLAZING " author="">

"ECLIPSE" ROOF GLAZING.

An exhibit at the National Exhibition that attracted considerable attention was that of Mellowes & Company, of Sheffield and London, England, which introduced for the first time to Canadian architects and builders their Eclipse'' system of puttees roof glazing

The steel bar which takes the place of the ordinary wooden sash bar is said to be absolutely imperishable, being covered with a strong ''Eclipse" metal cover, which is soldered at both ends, thus preventing any rust or weather getting to it. Neither zinc, putty nor paint is required. Snow or rain cannot possibly drift in between the glass and the woodwork, owing to the existence of a lead windguard which is fixed underneath the bottom of the pane and between the bars.

The use of this bar for over twenty-five years on railway stations, engineering works, baths, dye works and other buildings, subjected to the worst atmospheric conditions that could be selected, proves that it is imperishable, and entirely unaffected by atmosphere action.

The perfectly watertight condition of this system of roof glazing amid also time keeping out of dirt and dust is due to the existence of three webs which (unlike either zinc or copper), are rubbed firmly against the glass, two webs above and one below.

<article title=" ELECTRIC STANDPIPES " author="">

ELECTRIC STANDPIPES.

The attention of architects and builders is directed to an important requirement by the electrical department of the Fire Underwriters in connection with supply mains in buildings where electric lighting and power is furnished to various consumers on the different floors. It is just as necessary that an architect provide proper mains iii such buildings for the supply and distribution of electric light and power as for gas and water, and the failure on the part of architects to provide for this standpipe has in the past been the cause of a multitude of overhead service wires being run from the street into the windows on different floors of buildings throughout the city.

In cases where buildings are situated on the underground electric light service, a rising main can be run up through the entire height of the building in an iron conduit, sufficiently large to contain wires of sufficient carrying capacity to furnish all the lighting which is ultimately likely to be required on each floor, and, in the case of power supply, the power service may be brought into the building through the standard outside service pipe, such as is compulsory in the City of Toronto, and then rise up through the inside of the building with a meter loop on each floor. The details of this construction can be obtained from time electrical department of the Fire Underwriters.

<article title=" A HANDSOME BUILDING " author="">

A HANDSOME BUILDING.

The New- Vancouver Courthouse will be the chief architectural feature of the City of Vancouver. It will be built of Haddington Island stone, which was also used in the provincial legislative buildings. Time stone is grey, mellowing to a softer shade almost approaching white in process of time.

