<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	7



for the Carnegie Library at Toronto in my address of a year ago has not been fulfilled.

I think I can safely say that the competition was honorably conducted and fairly judged, and that the best design was selected. Great credit is due the successful architects for the ability displayed in producing a thoroughly compact, economically planned and well-designed building The city of Toronto will, without a doubt, obtain full value for every dollar expended on the structure.



The most notable competition, probably of a decade at least, is that which is now proceeding in connection with the new buildings for the Dominion Government, to be located on the east side of Major's Hill Park, in the City of Ottawa.



A Board of Assessors, or jury, consisting of the chief architect



of the Public Works Department and the presidents of the Quebec and Ontario Associations of Architects, was appointed by the Government last summer to prepare conditions of competition and to act as assessors in awarding the various prizes offered. These prizes amount in all to $15,000.00 -- $8,000.00 for the first, $4,000.00 for second, $2,000.00 for third, and $1,000.00 for the fourth.



None but Canadian architects practising in Canada are eligible, and it is the desire of the Government that Canadian building material shall bc exclusively used in the structures wherever possible.



The clause in the conditions whereby the Government does not bind itself to entrust the preparation of the working drawings and the supervision of the work to die successful competitor has provoked unfavorable comment on the part of a considerable number of architects, and may be the means of keeping some good men, if not the best, out of the competition. It goes without saying that no man can satisfactorily interpret another man's ideas, especially when the scale of the drawings is too small to give more than a hint of the detail.



The successful competitor should be permitted the development of his ideas. A scheme of such importance will require a vast amount of later study, which can only be given by the author himself. If the work is taken up by other hands it cannot but lose its individuality, no matter how sincere the other man is in endeavoring to faithfully carry out the competitor's ideas.

It should be borne in mind, however, that a very unfortunate situation might arise if the Government should absolutely commit itself by undertaking to entrust the execution of the work to the author of the prize design.

The prize design might be the work of a man who would be incompetent, or utterly impossible, regarding either the preparation of the working drawings or the subsequent supervision of the work. This is a contingency which might easily arise in a competition open to the Dominion, and the Government, for its own protection, must necessarily guard against such a contingency. 

While on the subject of competitions, I cannot refrain from noting the facility with which some members of the profession forget all their effusions and resolves when conferring together regarding the undesirability of competitions limited or otherwise where a committee of laymen are constituted sole judges. If four or five men are privately invited to enter such a competition the hope of obtaining the work is so strong that they are sorely tempted to pocket their objections and go in to win, in the hope that their design may he the one which will capture the imagination of the majority of the committee. It may be taken for granted that so long as even a small number of our reputable men are willing to accept such conditions the smaller competitions will not be condacted on the lines laid down in the model form adopted by the Association.

DECORATION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. -- An organised movement was made this year by members of the Guild of Civic Art and local architects in favour of the decoration of the Legislative Buildings of Ontario. The suggestions include not only the mural decoration of the walls, but a remodelling of the entrance hail and corridors. It has been suggested that the entrance hail be first improved and the commission given for decorating two or three panels each year. The Government has been favorably impressed, and has promised a substantial initial grant, but as more comprehensive changes in the building are contemplated nothing definite has, so far, been the outcome.

A similar committee is maturing a scheme of mural decoration for the City Hall at Toronto, with the intention of securing a

grant from the Council for its execution, spreading the work over a series of years.

The walls of the Parliament Buildings at Ottawa offer a suitable field for similar treatment, and no better opportunity could be afforded for recording pictorially the history of our young and growing nation. Is not this an opportunity for our newly formed Chapter to signalize its inception by a movement which should greatly advance art in our capital city?

TECHNICAL EVIDENCE It appears to me that this body should consider the question of taking some definite action with a view to influencing the procedure of the courts in connection with technical evidence.

There is a saying among lawyers that there is no liar like the technical liar.

The technical expert in the present day is engaged by one party in a dispute, whose views alone he hears, and who pays him a fee for supporting his contention. It is quite natural, therefore, that he should look at the question at issue from one side only. In other words his judgment is biassed from the very nature of the case. If he does not see the matter in a particular light his client has no use for him, and naturally so.

It is no wonder, therefore, that very conflicting evidence is heard on either side, and often from men of honor and responsibility. In other cases the expectation of a large fee is sufficient to induce men of lower moral standing to deliberately misstate facts. Men of the latter type, however, soon become known, and their words are largely discounted, while on the other hand the evidence of men of known probity and independence carries weight and conviction.

One great difficulty in connection with the taking of technical evidence is the fact that the witness is not permitted to say what he wants to and should say. An astute lawyer will frequently so word his question that the answer must bc "yes' or "no, and yet neither would be the correct answer. The witness should, in such cases, insist on being permitted to give a full and succinct reply, with such explanations or remarks as may be necessary to make his meaning plain. If the judge sees that the witness is honestly endeavouring to make clear his point he will seldom refuse this permission.

If possible, leglislation should be obtained by which the court would be empowered to appoint a committee or board of experts from men of experience in the question at issue, and men withal of probity and good repute. These men would be instructed by the court of the question at issue, they would listen to evidence on behalf of either side when necessary for the establishment of facts or other matters aside from technical which might affect the case, and would then present their report to the judge, dealing with the case entirely upon its merits. Their report should bc no more biassed than the decision of a judge, and there should bc a very greater likelihood of an entirely just award than under existing conditions.

<article title=" CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS " author="">CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS. — If our cities are to be improved, no only as to buildings, but as to streets, avenues and squares, architects must take a leading part in movements to such ends. Public spirit must be cultivated, and must lead by being willing to spend time and talent in the furtherance of schemes of improvement without thought of pecuniary reward.

Mr. Norman Shaw, to whom has been entrusted the great task of refashioning Piccadilly Circus, is one of London's enthusiasts in the matter of city planning and improvements. Referring to London's need (and the same will hold good in regard to our larger cities), he said recently in an interview, "What we want is a plan, a big comprehensive plan." lie then goes on to say how the French do it.



"In the first place they consult the artists, the people who know. The broad idea of a boulevard or a great street is laid out. It may he a hundred years before it is finished, but the idea runs constantly on. In a dirty little street you come across three or four fine new houses, well set back from the road, and you wonder by what freak they came there. You return in a few years and find a few more, hundreds of yards away. And then you discover that they are all part of a scheme for a great avenue of the future, an avenue, it may he, half a mile long. We never by any accident do that. That is the plan, the thing we have not got."

Mr. Shaw, in closing the interview, compressed his thoughts into a message, saying, "Plan, plan, plan,: that is what I am for ever preaching. Lay out your designs and builders will

