<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE OTTAWA GOVERNMENT BUILDING COMPETITION " author="">THE OTTAWA GOVERNMENT BUILDING COMPETITION

Designs Submitted by SPROATT AND ROLPH, Toronto.



Much favorable comment has been passed upon the designs submitted by Messrs. Sproatt & Rolph, Toronto, in the recent Ottawa competition. and we consider that a study of these will be of interest to many of the craft in Toronto. The designs are executed entirely in ink and are particularly striking in appearance. The plans on page 18 can be understood only by reference to the cross section design on page 16, which is the key to the floor scheme of the Departmental Building. The bridge sketch is a particularly tasty bit of work. Accompanying the designs was the following description

'We consider that we have taken unique advantage of  the location of the buildings on the property. The view of these from Major's Hill at once justifies the plan. In

EXTERNAL Appearance OF Buildings. - The idea of tile whole plan is to have a color scheme harmonizing with the Present buildings, while all are to be built of Nepean or a similar native stone, and with all the trimming's and all cut stone work out of a grey lime or sandstone. Platform and steps will be of grey granite.

Location OF Buildings. - Both buildings as shown on block plan are on the large allotment. the north lot. not being used. The location of the bridge is also) shown. The result is in appearance a uniformity of height viewing the building from either Major's Hill or Wellington street. The retaining wall, shown at north and west of the Departmental Building, will add to the appearance 

and serve the purpose of giving a level plateau and













































all cases the short axis of design is a corridor or passage through the building from front to front. In the Departmental Building, the plan is such that each floor

can be divided into separate departments if required. In time Justice Building the arrangement of the Supreme and Exchequer Courts is such that there can be no confliction or contusion, and the library is placed central. We have made only a few general remarks (here attached) upon the plans. The elevations have purposely been kept simple and dignified. We consider time detail and materials to be handled will give all the effect of richness, etc., desired.

CONSTRUCTION.—The general construct ion of the buildings throughout will be what is known as fireproof, including floors, walls, partitions, roofs, etc., the system of construction to be of steel, armored with terra cotta, and the floors of either concrete or terra cotta lumber. In all electric work, all wires to be run in steel conduit and every care taken in all trades for best results, viz., heating, ventilation. plumbing, etc.

making the character of the building strong from the  approaches instead of showing weakness, which would be apparent if ground and building fell away from the level.

STYLE OF Building. - Both the Justice and Departmental Buildings are of the same style, perpendicular Gothic, though there is a considerable difference in their character. We believe the same to be an advantage. with which in view the whole design has been carefully studied. We also consider that Gothic is the only style of architecture that can be used to finish the work for the amount of the appropriation, and that in Classic or Renaissance the problem would be impossible.



<article title=" JUSTICE BUILDING BASEMENT " author="">JUSTICE BUILDING BASEMENT. Given over for storage and heating systems. etc., with time exception of the portion taken up by the Sussex street entrance and stairs to the main floor.



 Ground Flour. - The whole occupied by the Ministers' Department. There is here the 20,000 square feet

