<doctype type="text">12	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



 to four hundred people. To the south of the school is a one storey wing, containing the pastor's 

parlor, kitchen, coat rooms, etc., while on the north side is a similar wing containing a young men's room, Chin class room. coat rooms, etc. Accommodation for the





































managers' library is arranged for in the main building on either side of the choir. and above are two rooms for  the use of the choir. The cost of the building is between $90,000 and $100,000.

<article title=" OAK FINISH TO MAHOGANY " author="">OAK FINISH TO MAHOGANY.

in a case where it was desired to change oak that had been filled and varnished in the natural to mahogany, a recent issue of the Painters' Magazine" presents the following comments in reply to a correspondent, who says that he realizes that the best way is to (lean off the old finish and then stain in imitation of mahogany, but that at the same tune a good mahogany imitation cannot he had on oak, because of the difference in the grain.

The best effect could be obtained by sandpapering down the old finish, then apply mahogany ground color, and grain in imitation of mahogany, finished with varnish. Still, if this method is too expensive and if the veining of mahogany is not an essential feature, we should say that the old finish should be well cleaned down, using various grades of sandpaper or steel wool. A fair imitation of mahogany could be obtained by using a strong stain, which may be made from Bismarck brown, dissolved in denatured alcohol, to which a little shellac varnish must be added for binder, or it may be made up as a water stain, by mixing colors ground in water thinning same with stale ale or beer. The proportions are about 16 parts by weight of burnt sienna, 3 parts rose pink and 1 quart madder lake. Still another quick drying slain may be made by mixing 2 pounds of burnt sienna ill Japan and 1-2 pound rose pink in Japan, thinning the mixture with pure spirits of turpentine and a few tablespoonful of rubbing varnish. The last named stain would perhaps work best in your case, as it would most effectively hide the oak grain and by working deftly you may be able to come closer to the mahogany effect than by any other means.

<article title=" A NEW PRINCIPLE IN ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION " author="">

A NEW PRINCIPLE IN ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION.

A structure built up of tetrahedrons has been used in the erection of a lookout hr Alexander Graham Bell, the inventor of the telephone. Such a. structure, we are told by T. W. Baldwin, who describes it in the ''Scientific American'' (New York, October 5), is a departure from ordinary engineering practice, from its general appearance clown to the minutest details. We read:

"Dr. Bell has used the tetrahedral principle in the construction of his man—lifting kites for some time, finding that it gives a perfectly braced structure of great strength and lightness. It occurred to Dr. Bell that this system might be used to advantage in engineering work on a large scale, and this tower is the first iron structure built on this principle.

"The unit cell, which is the basis of the whole tetrahedral system, is the framework or outline (If a solid having four sides, as the word tetrahedron implies. The solution of an old trick of making four triangles out of six matches may serve to impress the idea on the minds of some. This is an impossibility if the attempt be made to get them all in one plane. but the moment it occurs to one to make a triangle first and then a tripod of the three others above it is very simple indeed.



''The resultant structure, if the sticks are fastened at





































































the four corners, gives a regular tetrahedral cell, which is the unit of construction analogous to the brick in ordinary building. This miniature truss, made of four triangles in different planes, gives a framework of won

