<doctype type="text">10               CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



tion, which is to masquerade under the misleading title of Institute

Such an arrangement is rather severe, but backed by some show of justice, in view of the fact that the details of the scheme appear to have been decided upon with undue haste anti without regard for the probable effect upon the public mind. Among the strongest opposes of the project are architects themselves and now, as in the past the old adage holds good-- if a kingdom be divided against itself that kingdom cannot stand. '' The close corporation aspect is non-essential and distasteful. On the incorporation scheme, in its other aspects, the profession is pretty well agreed. and on these attention should be concentrated.





T

ILE question of charges for architectural service also received attention before the late conference of the American Institute of Architects, With the general

rise that has taken place of late in professional renumerations there naturally arises the feeling that there should be an upward tendency in the remuneration of architects. It has been more than once suggested as advisable for the profession to establish a range of charges based upon the value of the work rather than continue the practice of charging a straight percentage. It is a common theory of laymen that the percentage method results in the architect making the cost as large as possible for the sake of a fat fee. Though the suspicion is unjust, it would simplify matters perhaps if the architect claimed the same fee for the work, even though the price did fluctuate a few hundred dollars either way.

The American Institute of Architects recognized the fact that the value of an architect's services varies with his experience and ability, the locality in which lie works and the character of the work upon which lie is engaged, and consequently did not see the advisability of establishing a fixed rate of compensation that would be binding upon its members. however, it was conceded that for full professional services. adequately rendered, an architect should receive a compensation approximating to the following schedule of charges. while leaving to the judgment of individual members or chapters any variation therefrom: The architect's professional charge to consist of the necessary preliminary conferences and studies, working drawings, specifications, large scale a ml full— sized detail drawings, and in the general direction and supervision of the work for which the minimum charge, based upon the actual cost of the work, shall be On the first $1 0,000 of cost, or less, 10 per cent ; On the second $10,000 of cost, or less, 7 per cent.; on the next $30,000 of cost, or less, 6 per, cent. ; on any balance of cost, 5 per cent

When an operation is conducted under more than one contract, a special fee is charged in addition to the a hove schedule. For landscape architecture, furniture, monuments decorative and cabinet work and alterations to existing buildings. t he minimum charge is 10 per cent. In many instances 'this is not renumerative, and

it is usual and proper to charge a separate fee in excess thereof.''

While this schedule can merely have suggestive value for the Canadian profession. it must be conceded that the time is ripe for concerted action regarding charges for architectural service in Toronto and kindred large cities. On small houses the usual fee of 5 per cent. is inadequate. and vet in only a few cases have architects ventured on the 7 1-2 per cent. charge. It is merely a matter of time however, before this matter will call for legislation.





A

 POSSIBLE loss of from one to two billion dollars as the result of a conflagration breaking out in flue skyscraper district of Lower New York, is considered possible by George W. Rabb. president of tile New York Board of Fire Underwriters. It is an open secret that insurance companies dread. the outbreak of fire in certain part of New York City, and in the opinion of some American architects this fear is not wholly unjustified To quote the words of one of 'them than the old non-fireproof building.



"In many of our so-called fireproof tall buildings we find double wooden floors. laid on wooden sleepers. and wooden doors wooden door-backs, woolen door—casings. and wooden trim throughout Some of these tall build— in gs, because of their immense size. have over fifty per cent. more wood in them than the old non-fireproof buildings.''

This view is also taken by Architect Flagg, the designer of the Singer Building. who recently thus expressed himself on 'this question : 'It is the floors a and trim that burn, and the so—called fireproof wood I think the law ought in make high-building construction such that tile building call never burn. The Singer Building is the highest in the world, but there is not enough wood in it to make a leadpencil. It can never catch fire from within. The only thing to do is to make the whole section downtown in the region of skyscrapers really and truly fireproof. Tear out the wooden floors in the imitation fireproof high buildings and replace them with cement floors and replace the wooden run with metal. The danger from the burning of the furniture is infinitesimal compared with that of the wood that goes into a building, but why not make fireproof furniture for our skyscrapers out of paper-mache or some other non-conducting material? Very handsome furniture earl be made without an atom of wood in it. If would a rid wood furniture are were eliminated, the reasons fur a great conflagration in the skyscrapers would vanish into thin air.

While making outside walls fireproof architects have in too many instances allowed interior construction of combustible material. It may be true that there is exaggeration of the ills t hat skyscraper construction might induce, but it is none the less true that tile more discussion there is of tall building methods the stricter will be the observance of the laws of fireproofing and the hearer the approach to structural perfection.

