<doctype type="text">22	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THOMAS OGILVIE & SONS' NEW WAREHOUSE " author="">

THOMAS OGILVIE & SONS' NEW WAREHOUSE.

BURKE & HORWOOD, Toronto, Architects.



The new warehouse of Messrs. Thomas Ogilvie & sons, woollen manufacturers, at the corner of Bay and Wellington streets, Toronto, is a seven-story fireproof building erected under the direction of the architects Messrs. Burke and Horwood.

The building is 118 feet long by 60 feet wide, and 104 feet in height. The basement and first floor will be occupied by Messrs. Ogilvie & Sons themselves, but the upper portion of the building will be let for flats and offices. The second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth































































Ogilvie Building, Corner Bay and Wellington Streets, Toronto.

Burke & Horwood, Architects.





floors will be let as flats, with a floor space each of approximately 6,000 square feet, while the top, or seventh, floor will be divided into offices with a floor space of 700 to 800 feet square each. Few business quarters in Toronto will be able to show as much good light and space as the new building will, as there are 14 windows on each floor, with an average width of nine and a half feet. The ceilings are all lofty, the main floor being 16 feet high. The spacious pillared em trance fronts on Bay street will be distinctly ornamental in marble and mosaic.

"Expanded metal" has been used in making the building fireproof, the new structure reflecting great credit

on the superiority of this popular method of fireproof construction. The walls are exceptionally heavy, and are faced with red pressed brick, trimmed with grey stone. All the windows are of wired glass in metal frames. The stairways and elevators are all enclosed in fireproof partitions.

<article title=" CLASS IN DESIGN, ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

CLASS IN DESIGN, ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

In order to foster and stimulate an interest in design, the president of the Ontario Association of Architects has offered a traveling studentship of the value of $50, open for competition to all students who are at present serving their articles in offices of members of the Association. At least. three students must engage in the competition, the conditions of which are as follows:

The subject will be a private garage in connection with a gentleman's residence. Accommodation is required for two automobiles, a chauffeur's bedroom and a small room for garden tools and roller. The style of architecture and the material to be used are at the option of the competitor. Preliminary sketches are required, which may be submitted in a rough state, but in sufficient detail to permit of intelligent criticism.

These sketches will be received and criticized by the judges at the rooms of the Association on the evening of Monday, January 27, at 8 p.m., when all the competitors are requested to be present to take advantage of the criticisms of the various designs. If a competitor is unable to be present his design may be submitted, and the substance of the criticism will be given to him either orally or in writing. Out of town competitors will have the criticisms of their designs sent in writing.

The completed designs will be received six weeks later, the competitors being again present to hear the criticisms of these. The judges will afterwards meet at their convenience to further study the designs and make an award.

The completed designs are to be drawn to a scale of one-eighth inch to the foot and may be rendered in any manner, but preferably suitable for reproduction. A perspective sketch is required in both preliminary and final studies. Competitors may accompany their final studies by a typewritten description of special points in the design.

The successful competitor will be required, within six months of the award, to spend at least five days in one of the following cities: Boston, New York, Philadelphia or Washington, $40 being advanced for his expenses.

The will be expected, within two weeks of his return, to forward to the judges, through the registrar of the Association, a typewritten critical report or description of some particular work of architecture which he has visited, when the balance of the prize money will be paid over to him. If he so desires he may submit freehand sketches of his observations with explanatory notes.

Competitors are required to notify the registrar of their intention to compete not later than the 31st day of December, 1907.

