<doctype type="text">

WORKING PLAN FOR A COTTAGE ROOF<article title=" WORKING PLAN FOR A COTTAGE ROOF " author="Stevenson, W. C. A.">

BY W. C. A STEVENSON 



We produce herewith the half plan of a collage roof from which all cuts can lie taken. The outside measurement of the walls is 20 feel by 30 feet long (only half the length being shown)

The full lines show the plan of rafters, indicating the posit ion they assume. The jack rafters are spaced at 16 inches on centres from the common rafters. We have shown this root to have an S-foot rise. 2 feet less than half pitch

The line A B is the run of common rafter. i.e., 10 feet. Measure at right angles to A B a distance of 8 feet to C, this being the rise before stated. Connect A and















































































(1 as shown by the dotted line, this gives the length of the common rafter. i.e., 12 feet 10 inches. The figures on the square, 10 inches by 8 inches, will give the bevels. To cut this rafter cut on the 11) inch side for the foot or plate. and on the 8 inch side for the top or ridge cut.

Next to find the hip. The line E B is the rim of the hip- Draw the dotted line B F at right angles to E B a distance (If S feet from point B. This is the rise corresponding to that for a common rafter. Connect E and F as shown by the dotted line. This gives you the length of the hip. the figures on the square 14 feet by inches giving the cuts for the hip. The run and rise of any dimensions in feet and inches, reduced to includes and twelfths of inches. may be taken on the square, the run from the angle of the square on the one blade and the

rise on the other will give the figures required. Also by measuring across the angle troll the two figures you can get the exact length of the rafter to a twelfth scale.

Now revolve the line E P. the hip tine and A C. the common line, around In the point D, where it will be seen that they meet on the centre of the ridge line. Then draw the dotted lines 1 inch on each side (If A D and E I), thus showing the common and hip as they come together. When these are elevated to the height of 8 feet

the point I) will be directly above point 13, anti by extending the jacks on the hip E D we get their exact level. E D get the bevels for these side cuts the bevel





























































must be applied as indicated on the diagram. The lengths and bevels can be taken from t his for the whole roof by simple reversing the bevels, Thus we see that the first jack is 11 1—2 inches in length on the long side, each one being 20 inches longer than the one immediately

pre ceding. 

This draft should always be drawn on a scale of 1 inch to the foot. It carefully and accurately drawn it wilt work out for any rule, the figures of course varying for different pitches.

are must be taken to allow for the ridge cutting half the thickness (If each rafter. The figures shown here are to the centre of the ridge. The projection for the cornice must also he added, as he diagram shows measurement to the wall line only.

