<doctype type="text">20	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE <assoc>AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS</assoc>.

To The Brickbuilder" we are indebted for the subjoined notes of the forty-first annual convention of the American Institute of Architects, held at Chicago, November 18, 19 and 20.

NEW MEMBERS ELECTED.



The formal exercises opening the convention took place in Fullerton Hall on Monday evening. November

18.	The address of welcome to the city was delivered by Edward Y. Brundage, representing His Honor the  Mayor of Chicago. This was followed by addresses by the president of the Institute and President Charles L. Hutchinson of the Art Institute of Chicago. Then followed the election of three flew honorary members. Messrs. Henri-Paul Nenot (Paris). Otto Wagner ( Vienna), and Ernest von Ihne ( Berlin) ; two corresponding members. Messrs. Henry Wilson and Lorado Taft ; also seven Fellows of the Institute Claude F. Bragdon, Cyrus L. Eidlitz, Herbert D. Hale, Benjamin S. Hubbell, H. Van Buren Magonigle, Howard Van D. Shaw and Albert Kelsey.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION " author="Cram, Ralph Adams">

 ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION.

	Ralph Adams Cram, chairman of the Committee of Education, reported that steps had been taken by this committee for the institution of interscholastic competitions, and that a committee had already been. formed, including the members of his own committee and the  of architecture at Cornell, Technology, Pennsylvania, Harvard and Columbia. He emphasized the fact that the architect was not a man who could depend upon a narrow education in one specialized line, but must be broad and cultured. He also advocated the adoption of the "atelier system" ' for the study of architecture. In a accomplishment lie was able to state that Cornell had already adopted in full, a ad Pennsylvania and Harvard in part, the ideals that his committee had been furthering, while a general progress in all the colleges toward their adoption could be recorded.

 This committee strongly recommended that the period



given to the study of architecture in the various colleges be extended, even advocating that it include seven years, of which the first year he given to preparation, the next two years to general schooling, next giving perhaps three years to advanced study, and ending with  one or two years of travel or study in Paris amid other parts of Europe. The commit tee also advocated that a memorial he addressed to the Army and Navy Departments, emphasizing the value of instituting courses in architecture and art at West Point and at Annapolis, inasmuch as— especially in the ease of army graduates — the execution,

 superintendence and carrying on of extensive building operations for the Government. is a frequent experience in the after life of the army officer.

 STANDARD CONTRACTS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

<article title=" STANDARD CONTRACTS AND SPECIFICATIONS " author="">

	Grosvenor Atterbury	reported, as	Chairman 	of the

Committee on Contracts and Specifications, progress toward the definition of a standard document that was then in the hands of the printers, preliminary to its dissemination among the various Chapters of the Institute for a criticism from each, in the hope that by this means they would be enabled to make it of value throughout the country. This had not been accomplished in the to offer any more tangible report at this Convention, but as soon as the material had assumed a definite forum it was to be sent to all the various members of the Institute.

 DISCUSSION OF CONCRETE



Because of the fact that the present Convention expected to have come before it papers largely given to the consideration of concrete Irving K. Pond chose to devote most of his report. as Chairman of Committee on Applied Arts and Sciences, to an extremely unconventional and drastic series of statements as to the province amid possibilities latent in this immaterial. He cla- imed that the architect should be a sculptor amid should study nature to rid himself of the hounds of convention that are too likely to restrict his outlook and the progressive value of his product. New architecture requires new forms and new materials, a ad commercialism, as mime impetus of modern art, should properly express itself iii forms at products that. might oft en be rightly considered by themselves, inartistic. In connection with concrete he urged the importance of faience, terra cotta and brick, for their decorative value, as ornament t in detracting from ''the brutality of concrete.

A paper was also react on the subject of concrete by C. Howard Walker, "The Artistic Expansion of Steel and Concrete. The papers of Messrs. Pond and Walker, together with one read by Mr. Elzner, are being printed for general circulation.

COMPETITION. 

	R.	Clipston Sturgis gave the findings of his committee on the subject of competitions. classifying them under three separate headings: First, limited competitions, for which all the competitors were to receive adequate renumeration for their work second, open competitions, with prizes aggregating a sum of not less than five times the cost of preparing a set of drawings; and I third, competitions	having both open and	limited	features. The

 committee		recognize that it is impossible to	prevent competitions, and that their best	endeavors should be

towards	their	standardization and regulation.	They, in

furtherance of this purpose, advocate that members of the Institute should, in all cases, be engaged to draw up the rules governing the submission of drawings and the selection of the premiated designs.

	METRIC SYSTEM	DISCARDED.

The Committee oil the Metric System, through I heir chairman, L. De Coppet Berg., advocated that the metric system in its entity having proved unfeasible, should line abolished and the subject dropped. He made the suggestion that the present foot unit be divided into tenths instead of twelfths, which would merely necessitate the substitution of the engineering scale for that of the carpenter and architect, mentioned incidentally that the foot measurement in use by England, America and Russia, and their dependencies and colonies was, as a matter of fact, already a standard for a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  considerable portion of the civilized world.

