<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE OTTAWA GOVERNMENT BUILDING COMPETITION " author="">THE OTTAWA GOVERNMENT BUILDING COMPETITION

	Designs	submitted	by	JAMES FOULIS	ARCHITECT, Ottawa.



The designs of Mr. James Foulis. of Ottawa. awarded tenth place in. the Ottawa Government Building Competition are in the English Renaissance style of architecture,  of which the author displays an intimate knowledge. Lack of time prevented Mr. Foulis from preparing a perspective view. but it is hoped that from the accompanying reproductions t he profession may gather an adequate idea of the plans submitted. In his report to the Judging Committee Mr. Foulis says

In accordance with clause 5 set forth in the conditions, which states that any style of architecture may he submitted  the author respectfully begs to suggest that a simple treatment of Classic Renaissance be used.

In his opinion the use of a style differing from the present buildings need not necessarily be inharmonious, and the position of the sites further warrants this assertion the comparatively low-lying nature of Major's Hill Park being in his opinion better suited to a Classic treatment The nature of the buildings themselves and the uses to which they will lie put are also strong points in favor of the wore severe style, the dignity and solemnity winch is essential in such a building as contains the Courts of Justice, and the more conventional office purposes of the Departmental Buildings, being more suitably rendered in Classic than in any phase of Gothic.

It is also the author's opinion that in any city in. which the public buildings follow one particular style of architecture. the beauty and individuality of any one building is apt to be overlooked in the similarity of the whole.

These arguments are not intended as a criticism of the suitability of the beautiful buildings on Parliament Hill nor as an outcry against the use of Gothic for public buildings. but only as a reason for adopting an entirely different style and a suggestion of what might be done to produce a more artistic ensemble and amid to the beauties anti attractions of the city.

<article title=" THE DEPARTMENTAL BUILDINGS " author="">

THE DEPARTMENTAL BUILDINGS



PLAN.—Only one plan has been shown, it being thought sufficiently typical of the whole.

This plan may be described as that of a continuous corridor. with office space on the outer sides, and having cross corridors running east and west, affording easy and direct communication between the departments. and giving access to the rooms facing the two central quadrangles and to the various toilet rooms.

SYSTEM or ARRANGEMENT--The style of single office and corridor with direct light to both is not so economical in building as the double office with central corridor but it is eminently more satisfactory and unquestionably the best system.

TOILETS.—Particular attention is directed to thc arrangement of these latter. It Will be noted that the men's 's toilets are entirely separated from those of the

opposite sex-, and are not overlooked by any offices, but obtain ample light and ventilation from areas which also afford direct light and ventilation to the corridors and staircases.

STAIRCASES.—Staircases for general business purposes have been provided at the four corners of time building, with an entrance to each; also a cent nil staircase entering from Sussex street. In each ease these would be of stone and built round solid walls with central elevator shafts.

GRAND STAIRCASE. A grand staircase has been provided entering from the Park side. No elevators have been shown in connection wit h this staircase as it is presumed it will be used for ceremonial purposes and not for everyday traffic.

QUADRANGLES AND AREAS—The two large quadrangles have been arranged to admit of sonic architectural treatment and will afford ample light to the offices overlooking them. Entrance to these may be had through stone vaulted archways from the Sussex street side. All other areas would be built in white enameled brick.

BASEMENT AND LUNCH Room. The basement. would be given over to storage mid heating apparatus. The author also suggests that a large luncheon department with kitchen and all necessary offices be provided on this floor—facing Sussex street—for the convenience of the civil servants and benefit of those visiting on business purposes. and capable of providing and serving say 1,000 lunches a day. This is one of the feature of the new war offices in London, England and is a very necessary and much appreciated essential.

 ARCHITECTURAL TREATMENT In treating this building it has been the author's endeavor to preserve a dignified appearance without attempting to give any special character other than what belongs to a building of national offices on a palatial scale. Special attention has been given to light and ventilation. and everything necessary for the comfort and convenience of those w hose privilege it may be to work within its walls.

A plaster treatment of the Ionic order has been used in subservience to the more massive columnar treatment of the Justice Building. It will be noted that the lines of the order have been carried through at tile same level in both buildings in order to preserve the general lines and prevent the greater length and height of the Departmental Building from overbalancing the shorter but more sturdy proportions of the .Justice Building.

JUSTICE BUILDING 



Three plans for this building are given, namely, ground, first and second floors. No basement is shown, but this would be given over entirely to storage and heating, In connection with this latter it may be stated that no flues have been indicated on any of the

