<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



petty selfishness to secure a monopoly of rights, the value of which is questionable and liable sooner or later to lead to discord. It is immaterial who calls himself a doctor, a professor, an artist, an architect. To some men in a mere name there is a rare smack of prestige, hut in our enlightened, if commercial, age the insignia of office count for little in comparison with intrinsic merit.



I

 T is a mistake on the part of those who are in the forefront of the agitation for the incorporation act to spoil what otherwise would be good legislation, and thereby deprive the act of the unanimous support of the Canadian profession, by attempting to prohibit the use of the title ''architect," except in the narrowest sense. No fear need he felt by any competent member of the profession that the free assumption of the title by men of inferior training or capacity can be in the slightest degree detrimental to the general body of architects. The public is 00 well educated to be deceived by charlatans or hum-bugs in such important matters as the planning of modern buildings. The growing agitation for competent building inspection in towns big and small, which will never he satisfied till a national building by-law is compiled and put into force, will be far more effectual in raising the standard of the architectural profession than any petty agitation for limiting the name ''architect'' can possibly be. No one thinks of classing the gifted portrait painter or landscape artist with the ordinary journeyman brush hand of the ladder and scaffold brigade. It is not a distinction of terms that is essential; it is that recognition which inevitably comes as the natural right of superior mental endowment.





MOREOVER, compulsory examination by a board of

Lvi architects is a precarious policy and the imposition thereby on incoming members of the profession of unworthy and really unnecessary restrictions is a point about which much bitterness will centre. The subject of written examinations is one which in the educational world has probably been tile source of more dissatisfaction than any other single phase of that great problem. Written examinations are never a fair test and often are extremely unsatisfactory, even in ordinary academic circles. In architecture they would he a source of endless dissatisfaction as an entrance qualification. and extremely distasteful to a really artistic temperament. Instances come to mind where architects with seemingly little educational advantage have risen superior to circumstances and have given to the world masterpieces of architectural design. Could these men have passed an examination in the heating and sanitation of buildings, the theory of stress or strength of materials? if not, then they would, according to the wording of the proposed act, have been forever ostracized from communication with the select body of Canadian architects. a privilege which is theirs by inherent right and of which the failure to pass an examination should never be permutted to deprive them.

HERE arises a further question. The examination as proposed would turn out—not architects—but building inspectors. Is that what time Canadian architectural profession requires? By no means. Architecture presents three phases, commercial scientific and artistic. The first two are the primary requisites for time successful building inspector, his knowledge of which an examination can reasonably be expected to test. The last no written test can gauge. It can manifest itself only under inspiration and develop solely by self-criticism and ceaseless striving after the ideal. It is beyond the realm of the mechanical. The artistic mind is not begotten by much study. True, like all else in human nature, it is born in imperfection and must needs be improved by slow processes of self-examination and imitation of the best that tile great minds of the past have produced. In our large cities the city architect or  building inspector approves all plans before a permit to build is granted. Moreover, during the process of erection time building is constantly tinder the oversight of the inspector and the architect is thereby afforded assistance in that from which, in many cases, he is glad to be relieved. For the architecture, however, the architect alone is responsible, and in his estimation it is the appearance of the finished building that looms large. There are scores of architects who don't care a straw for time mathematical or scientific aspect of their profession, and who, if it were not for the fact that they are allied with men of practical rather timan artistic endowments, could not possibly grapple with time minutiae of immaterial stress and strain. Moreover, it is a question, even if such men eared to apply themselves to time distasteful work of preparing for an examination in mathematical or scientific subjects, whether they would succeed in taking anything like a satisfactory standing. The profession is limitless in its possibilities. and for that reason no narrow check should he placed upon the eligibility for admission of any who might bring into it the inspiration of their genius.



 THE great powers which the architectural profession is asking for itself in this act of incorporation are as vet imperfectly understood. The Institute of Architects of Canada. if gramited its demualids. will have the power of admitting or rejecting candidates and in a measure of deciding who shall be deemed competent to provide for the public safety in matters structural. It ms not to a body of his fellow-craftsmen that, the architect should be responsible. so much as to a government inspector, who in his turn is guided by a national or international building by-law that would relegate to the realm of tile impossible such disasters as have during the past year filled the public mind with distrust of modern building methods. No man, however competent he may appear, should be irresponsible. The very fact of his freedom from oversight is in many cases a man's excuse for carelessness arid negligence. and architects should be the last to claim dispensation from criticism of responsibility.

