<doctype type="text'ad">30	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE CLAYWORKERS' ANNUAL CONVENTION " author="">

THE CLAYWORKERS' ANNUAL CONVENTION.

The sixth annual convention of the manufacturers of Canadian clay products was held in Ottawa at Goldsmith's Hall, November 19 to 21, last.

President John B. Miller, of Toronto, in his annual 'address, alluded to the curtailed profits of the manufacturers, owing to the increased cost of materials and labor and this, despite the fact that from one end of Canada to the other the brickyards had more orders than they 'could possibly meet.

Mr. Miller referred to the impression that cement would displace brisk. He firmly believed that a well burned clay product for construction purposes, either as regards rapidity of construction, safety, or on sanitary grounds was unsurpassed. The reason, he continued, that was given for the agitation against brick was that it

·cost too much to place this brick in the walls after being delivered. With other materials unskilled foreign labor could be used while the claim was made that the skilled labor is controlled by trade unions whose members work only as they like and when they like, and demanded the highest wages. "Are an honorable class of skilled mechanics, who build structures of material that defy the ravages of the elements and time itself, are these good citizens to be supplanted by those who have no aspirations to ever become citizens, and are our public buildings and homes to take the appearance of plastered or roughcast tenements simply because a common mind has not been found between those who buy our product and those who make them take the form of buildings? he asked.

An interesting paper on "Tile Drainage and its Needs" was given by Mr. J. H. Grisdale, of the agricultural department of Ottawa. The speaker had had considerable experience in drainage and favored perfectly round tile in preference to tile with a flat side. He urged the manufacturers to produce 2 1-2 inch tile the manufacturing. One half of the land of Canada would do better if it were drained. From 10 to 20 p. c. of the land of this country has to be drained. He outlined how necessary it was to urge on this business and gave several reasons in favor of tile drain, He favored tile being made of finer grain so that they can be broken at any point necessary. "Once we can get the farmer to understand how much benefit is to be derived from tile draining, said he, the demand for tile will be enormous."

The growth of ceramic art was sketched by Mr. Gregory, who gave an outline of the history of pottery in the early 'ages, with special reference to Egyptian, Greek and Roman pottery.

President W. S. Odell, of the Ottawa association, read a paper prepared by Secretary W. J. Craig, on "Local Organization." He described the conditions in Ottawa where all the brick is supplied to a stock company, known as the Ottawa Supply Company, who in turn sell it to contractors. The profits are divided according to the productive capacities of the respective plants.

<article title=" A POPULAR MATERIAL " author="">A POPULAR MATERIAL.

In "Acorn Quality" corrugated galvanized iron sheets, architects and builders have a roofing material that fills a long felt want. For skating rinks, factories and 'large manufacturing plants this material is particularly adaptable, as evidenced by the large quantity going into consumption. Among the buildings recently so covered are the new rinks at Forest, Orillia and Dunville, and also that at the Mimico Industrial School.

A feature of the new St. Jerome College building, Berlin, Ont., is the metal cornice, six feet high. manufactured and erected by the Metal Shingle & Siding Company, who are manufacturers of "Acorn Quality" roofing.



Toronto Brick Works











