<doctype type="text">22	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



building. On the main floor are the professor's office and private laboratory, supply room for apparatus etc. The elementary laboratory is a spacious room, 40 feet square, with desk accommodation for 75 and hood accommodation for 40 students.

The dairy laboratory has accommodation for 24 workers. while the advance laboratory will hold about the same number when necessary.

On the second floor, in addition to the lecture room and preparation rooms, are smaller class room laboratories for organic chemistry and food chemistry arid the office of the assistant professor, etc.

The other half of the building is occupied by the department of Physics. On the first floor are a soil laboratory, 48 feet by 28 feet; a mechanics' and apparatus room, 42 feet by 28 feet, and an office for the professor and his private laboratory. On the second floor are an elementary laboratory, 60 feet by 28 feet, an advanced laboratory 40 feet by 26 feet, an office for an assistant, two research rooms and a large lecture room.

The Agricultural arid Horticultural Building occupies a prominent position to the northeast of the Biology arid Main Buildings. It faces the west and has a frontage of 194 feet. The north wing is given over to home dairying, the south wing to horticulture and the central portion to agriculture, livestock, cereal husbandry and farm machinery.

In connection with the department of live stock there is a large octagonal judging pavilion 92 feet by 44 feet.

The Poultry Building lies to the north of the Agriculture-Horticulture Building. The main portion, 70 feet l)y 40 feet, is two storied and has a roomy basement. The western annex furnishes the brooder house and the eastern annex a series of pens for the chief breeds of fowl.

the women's residence has accommodation for 225 women. It contains also reception rooms, a music room, a large college dining hall, 100 feet by 60 feet; a gymnasium, 100 feet by 60 feet' a swimming pool, 60 feet by 27 feet, bath rooms and lavatories. It is connected to the Main Building by a covered corridor. It also con— talus kitchens, bakery, refrigerator rooms, serving pantries and servants' quarters.

The men 's residence corresponds in architecture and in plan of rooms to the women's residence, and is on the opposite side of the campus. It has accommodation for 175 men also reception rooms, bath rooms and lavatories, a gymnasium and a swimming pool.

The main farm comprises about 387 acres, and is in a good state of cultivation, well drained and provided with well built roads. The cattle stables have room for over 80 milch cows and 100 young animals.

The small cultivation farm consists of about 100 acres, devoted to productive works, etc. On this farm is a commodious brick barn for storage purposes.

The most imposing view of the college is from the riverside, and the architecture being of a free type, harmonizes well with the surrounding countryside. It has been a large problem and seems to fulfil its purpose admirably.

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

So far the volume of business done this year in Montreal has been very satisfactory, and the aggregate is quite up to that of last year.

The demand for building material has kept dealers busy and fully supplied the mills and factories with work. In some cases increases in price have caused inconvenience. while in some instances actual losses have been sustained. It is expected that for next year a general readjustment will have to take place. 

The increase in the cost of living has created a demand for more wages, but during the year Montreal arid district have been almost free from strikes and labor disputes.

Branch banks continue to spring up in the city and vicinity, one of the latest being for the Royal Bank of Canada at the corner of Sherbrooke street and Victoria avenue, Westmount. The two elevations are treated in a simple way, the banking room on the ground floor being emphasized with large windows between small pilasters. while above the entablature is a small attic, containing apartments for the use of the manager. The exterior is built entirely of Roman stone. The composition is good, although perhaps appearing a little stunted owing to its resting on a very small base. Besides the main hall there is a ladies' room as well as the manger's, and other necessary offices. The safes are situated in the basement, together with a large book room and lavatories. The main entrance is on Sherbrooke street and leads directly into time banking hall. Mr. H. C. Stone is the architect. The contractors were Messrs. John Stewart & Company, the fittings being supplied by the Canada Office & School Furniture Company. The building is heated with hot water, and lighted by electric light.

Down town the number of new banks is notable, so much so that we hope to publish soon illustrations and details of the chief ones.

The new branch post-office on St. Catherine street is certainly a striking addition to the architecture of the thoroughfare. It is situated near University street, and is a most convenient place for the growing number of business premises in time locality. It has a frontage of fifty-one feet and a depth of ninety feet, and is three storeys in height. The base of the building is of granite and the rest of the front of Nova Scotia sandstone of a very pleasing shade. On thie ground floor are two entrances, one for the public and one for the offices on the other floors. The second and third floor windows are spaced between four Greek Ionic columns arid generally the whole facade is treated in the same classic manner, making an imposing building. The ground floor is to be used entirely for public purposes and working rooms, while time two upper floors will be occupied by time postmaster. The construction is steel with terra cotta partitions and floors, the interior being finished irm oak amid plaster. The architect is Mr. Maurice Perrault, acting jointly with Mr. D. Ewart, chief architect of public works at Ottawa.

