<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ACTIVITY AMONG BUILDERS' EXCHANGES " author="">

ACTIVITY AMONG BUILDERS' EXCHANGES.

Concluded from page 21.)



Special attention is called to stipulation No. 2, in view of the fact that some architects are said to have a method of securing tenders that is loose and unfair to the contractor. The latter claims that bids are invited from the various trades, arid a definite time limit set for their closing, but that it afterwards leaks out that tenders are again asked for from others who had not competed in the first instance. Contractors say that architects who follow this system can not blame any builders who may decline to again tender under such conditions.

Two years ago, as a result of a meeting between the Toronto Association of Architects and the Builders' Exchange, it was decided to adopt a standard form of contract, viz., the ''Revised Contract.'' This decision is of much value, as builders are now aware of what they undertake, and they are also assured that the terms of the contract are fair and equitable to all parties.

The secretary, Mr. .J. L. Phillips, will be pleased to confer with any firms who are not as yet connected with the Exchange and to give any desired information.

ANNUAL BANQUET AT MONTREAL.

At the Place Viger Hotel, Montreal. on the evening of December 13, the Builders' Exchange of that city held its tenth annual banquet. The affair was an unqualified success. In the chair was Mr. James Simpson, past president of the Exchange, and on his right were the Hon. R. Dandurand, Speaker of the Senate; Mr.

L.	A. Rivet, M.P.., Aid. De Serres, acting Mayor; Mr.

C.	H. Catelli, president of the. Chambre de Commerce; Mr. A. 0. Brossard. provincial architect, while on his left were the Hon. W. A. Weir, the Hon. J. D. Rolland. president of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association Messrs. A. Chausse, Jos. Thibeault, and J. H. Lauer, secretary of the Builders' Exchange. The vice-chairmen were Messrs. J. II. Hutchison, N. T. Gagnon, a past president, while the reception committee consisted of Messrs. J. N. Arcand, John Gray, W. R. J. Hughes, Chris. Sonne and W. E. Ramsay.

The menu card was in the form of an elaborately worded legal document, duly signed and sealed. skillfully concealing in a maze of verbiage the good things to which a full quota of guests did ample justice.

The loyal toast having been accorded due honor, Mr. W. E. Ramsay proposed the toast of "Our Country, the Dominion," and in so doing suggested that they should show the Government some appreciation of the passing of the Lemieux Bill, expressing a hope that it would soon be extended to the building trades. The bill was a great success. and it had received the approval of both parties.

The Hon. W. A. Weir expressed the belief that before long they would see compulsory arbitration, not only in public utilities, but in every walk of life dealing with industrial energies. Men had, of course. every right to combine, but to his mind there was one fatal principle in trades unionism, and that was that all workmen, whether skilled or not! must be paid the same wage;

a man who is inferior at his trade must receive the same as the skilled workman. It was a fatal defect, and one which he believed the workers themselves would eventually remedy.

''Education,'' declared Mr. Weir, ''is the solution of this problem. Ignorance is the refuge of the thoughtless. We must have a thorough system of education before Canada can take her place among the great industrial factors of the world.''

The other speakers during the evening were: Hon. J. D. Roland. Alderman De Serres and Messrs. L. A. Rivet, N. T. Gagnon, J. W. Hughes, C. H. Catelli, W. T. Castle, Geo. A. Ross, Alcide Chausse and R. P. Lemay.

<article title=" GROWING DEMAND FOR WIRE GOODS " author="">

GROWING DEMAND FOR WIRE GOODS.

Great improvement has been made of late in the buildings arid plant of the B. Greening Wire Company, Hamilton, so that the former now occupy portions of three separate blocks.

Besides the manufacture of wire, this company make all kinds of wire cloth, from the heaviest varieties used for locomotive stacks and refuse burners for saw mills































B. Greening Wire Company's Plant, Hamilton, Ont.



to the fine wire cloth used for flour mills, office window blinds, mining purposes, car ventilators, etc. They also make steel wire chains of all descriptions and for all purposes.

For all these goods the demand has recently become so great that it was found necessary to open an eastern office at 422-4 St. Paul street, Montreal, of which Mr.

J.	H. Hanson is in charge.

<article title=" MANITOBA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

MANITOBA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The annual meeting and banquet of the Manitoba Association of Architects was held at the Royal Alexandra Hotel, Winnipeg, November 15 last, with President S. Frank Peters presiding. Speeches and general good fellowship made the evening a thoroughly enjoyable one. The election of officers for the ensuing year resulted in the following appointments.: President. S. Hooper; first vice-president, J. Greenfield; second vice-president J. Chisholm; treasurer and secretary, L. T. Bristow and

W.	Percy Over, respectively (re-elected) ; directors. J.

D.	Atcheson, Win. Pingland. S. F. Peters. Y. W. Horwood and H. Matthews.

