<doctype type="text"><article title=" ACTIVITY AMONG BUILDERS' EXCHANGES " author="">ACTIVITY AMONG BUILDERS' EXCHANGES

TORONTO EXCHANGE OPENS.<article title=" TORONTO EXCHANGE OPENS " author="">

An era of advancement in the progress of the Builders' Exchange of Toronto was marked by the recent formal opening of the new Exchange offices at the corner of Richmond and Berti streets. About 100 members and guests were present, representing all branches of the building trade. The new Exchange quarters are located in the Sons of England Temple. where they occupy the entire ground floor of the new building, recently erected under the supervision of Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett, architects, Toronto. The accompanying photogravure shows the general assembly room, together with the various offices occupied by the different sections.

At the opening, which was held on December 9, several bright and interesting speeches were made after the introductory address by the president, Mr. Thomas Self. Messrs. W. J. Bolus and Stewart Hughes, the president and secretary respectively of the Master Painters' Association, made interesting speeches, showing the good results to be attained by united effort. The speeches were interspered with songs, rendered by members of the Exchange, and humorous character sketches by Mr. Eddie Piggott.

It is the aim of the Toronto Builders' Exchange to increase its membership and to endeavor to advance in every legitimate way the interests of the building trade. The records of the Exchange extend backward over a period of forty years. It first existed as the "General Building Society," the membership in 1867 being about fifty. Among those of the old "Society" still living are William H. Booth, Robert Carroll, Joseph Gearing, Edward Galley, William Forbes, and John Dill.

The "stipulations" under which the builders of the old "Society" took their contracts may well cause pre

New Quarters of Toronto Builders' Exchange.

<article title=" New Quarters of Toronto Builders' Exchange " author="">



sent-day contractors to doubt whether they have progressed since those ''way-back'' times. A few of these stipulations" may be here enumerated:

1.	Detail drawings to be furnished by the architect at the time of tendering.

2.	Contractors to attend at the required time, and be present at the opening of tenders.

3.	The owner of the property to execute the contract in duplicate, and sign plans and specifications at the same time as the contractor, and one duplicate original so executed to be delivered to the contractor.

4.	All alterations or additions to contract to be only proceeded with on the written order of architect or

proprietor.	(Continued on page 28.)

