<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



properties and is looked upon as a work of art, the subject of the joints becomes a quest ion of decorative skill It is always used to outline the different elements of the design. and in mosaic work to proclaim frankly the character of the execution and the materials used in it. The niceties of media ideal perfection which are desirable in wall or floor work that is seen train a distance of only several feet, or in perspective, should give way to a broad and bold treatment when the tile or ceramic mosaic is used oil the exterior of buildings, where the design is seen from a far greater distance and in which the proportions of the design must harmonize with the other architectural features of the building.

Clay occurs in numerous varieties, each of which when subjected to the fire of the kiln is baked in a different color. These natural colors in which the material occurs arc, however, only a small part of the variety in which the finished product can be manufactured l)y the addition of metallic oxides, with which it is possible to supply almost any color, shade or tint. One of the characteristics of tiling is that its color, produced by the flames of the kiln, is a most uncertain quality. The potter is never able to tell exactly in what shade or tint his finished product will emerge from the fire. Clay that is in every respect identical and individual, pieces of which are placed side by side in the kiln, will come forth in great variations, even in the same individual piece. The plain white tile, for instance, are divided into a large number of shades. which have to be sorted at the factory in order to give that unnatural uniformity of color which is demanded by the American public, who are as vet unfamiliar with thc fine qualities of tiling.

The great variety in the color of tile is one of the mast important factors in its decorative possibilities, as it gives the designer or architect a choice of color resembling that of the painter's palette. With these opportunities however. are also serious responsibilities. The possible a buses of artistic merit extend to a positive clashing (if color effects, so evident as to produce a disagreeable physical sensation upon the eye, even of those absolutely ignorant of the cause. A faulty color scheme executed in tiling is all the more Serious, as the tile floor or wall is supposed to last for generations, and it is  not possible to change its color by the superficial application of pigments Many of the examples of early tile work ill this country, where the tile setter seemed to imagine that decoration consisted merely in the juxtaposition of different colors worked out in geometrical design, without any thought of harmony, were so lacking in taste as to reflect discredit On the material itself while as a matter of fact the blame rested with the designer or workman, who was not equal to the possibility,  or was ignorant of the dangers of his material.

In addition to time principles of color harmony there are certain other guides which should be followed in the use of colored tile. either glazed or unglazed. In bathrooms, hospitals drugstores, dairies, and other places where a sanitary floor and wall covering is the prime object it is well tar the white tile to predominate. The

glaring monotony of an all white surface, however. should in most cases be relieved by at least a touch of color in the form of borders friezes or panels. By a skilful use of these designs it is possible to correct the frequent faulty appearance of a room due to its lack of proportion in being too long, too narrow, too high or too low The same is true of designs on a tile or ceranic mosaic porch. For practical reasons the porch has to be built rather narrow, amid this narrowness is emphasized by the long cracks between the boards of a wooden floor. By the use of tile, or ceramic mosaic, however the floor can be broken up into sections or supplied with a border that will correct this faulty appearance. In reception halls. smoking rooms restaurants or other places of recreation or refreshment the colors should suggest warmth and good cheer. In fact in every place the character of the tile decoration should he made to harmonize with its surroundings and architect or decorator should always bear in mind the fact that the work he is executing  in baked clay or mosaic is of a permanent character a ml will not lie altered dining his lifetime.

Another feature of color work in tile that is of great importance is the fact that the tile colors never fade, and that they are uninjured by the smoke, dirt and other extraneous substances contained in the atmosphere of our crowed cities. Water, or even acids will not stain or otherwise injure clay tile. in fact the most delicate mosaic picture done in ceramics can be quite safely  rinsed off with a hose. In exterior work in cities where there is much smoke or dust in the atmosphere. especially on shop facades located in the basements of buildings, the use of colored tile is about the only effective method of adding to the exterior of the building a color scheme which is not injured by exposure to the atmosphere. E very shower of rain washes the tile surface as clean as if it were a piece of china.

<article title=" ARTIFICIAL AGING OF CONCRETE " author="">

ARTIFICIAL AGING OF CONCRETE.

Various attempt s have been made to reduce the time which must elapse between t lie casting of concrete and the period when it acquires a workable compressive strength. The effects of a steam bath following on time casting have been tried. The primary set is by this means hastened lint the ultimate crushing strength does not attain the maximum reached by concrete allowed to

"age'' naturally under ordinary water—sprinkling treatment. Messrs. R. J. Wig and H. P. Harlik Of the Lewis Institute, Chicago. have presented to that body the results of experiments conducted with a view to discovering whether the ultimate compressive strength could not be increased by a further short treatment following on the steam bath. They tried water baths amid water-sprinkling processes lasting for different periods of time, and their findings show that both had the desired effect, the water bath being perhaps more satisfactory. It. was, however, necessary to continue the treatment for periods exceeding twenty—four hours to bring the ultimate strength up to that of naturally aged concrete.

