<doctype type="colophon;text">Canadian



Architect And Builder

A Journal of

Constructive and Decorative Art

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY



HUGH C. MACLEAN, LIMITED

TORONTO, CANADA.



HEAD OFFICE - Confederation Life Building, TORONTO

Telephone Main 2362

MONTREAL - Telephone Main 2299. B34 Board of Trade

1). BURNSIDE, Representative

WINNIPEG	-	-	Telephone 218. 330 Smith St.

ROLAND F. HILL, Representative

VANCOUVER	-	- Telephone 2248. 615 Hastings St.

GEO. A. GALL, Representative



SUBSCRIPTION RATES



Canada and Great Britain - - $2.00

United States and Foreign - - 2.50

Toronto	NOVEMBER, 1907	Montreal







CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.

WITH this of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER it devolves upon the publishers to announce a. change of ownership. For the past twenty years this journal has been owned by the C. H. Mortimer Publishing Company. The entire interests and good-will of this company were recently purchased by Mr. Hugh C. MacLean, under whose direction the publication of The Architect AND BUILDER will hereafter he continued.

Since its inception THE ARCHITECT AND BUILDER has aimed to promote the true interests of the important profession it represents and to present at all times as complete a history as possible of matters bearing on the architectural and building crafts of Canada. That it has satisfactorily discharged its mission is indicated by a large clientele of advertisers and subscribers, whose numbers are steadily increasing.

What has been accomplished in the past is but an inspiration for future effort. A determined policy of improvement, designed to produce the best architectural journal in America, will be pursued by the new management. These changes cannot be undertaken in a day or a month they must necessarily be brought about as a process of evolution. Every issue, we hope, will plainly reflect improvement in the reading matter, the advertisements, the illustrations and in typographical appear-a rice

From advertisers and subscribers we solicit and anticipate a continuance of the support and co-operation which have been so generously extended in the past. and to them we promise our best services.

Hugh C, MacLean, Limited.

FAREWELL.

IN saying a farewell word to subscribers and advertisers of this journal, the undersigned desires to express appreciation of the kindness and support received at their hands, and to wish them health and prosperity in the future.

C. H. Mortimer.





ALTHOUGH there are evidences of activity still to be seen in some of the architects' offices throughout the country, it must be admitted that leisure moments are not in the distant future for the profession as a whole. The past summer was extremely promising for late fall work and seemed to imply an interesting period of preparation for the summer of 1908. For the moment, however, these prospects are somewhat at obscured by the financial stringency that has affected almost all branches of Canadian industry and compelled prospective builders to deliberate before embarking on undertakings not absolutely essential. 





UNFORTUNATELY, many of the larger centres. such as Montreal and Toronto, have of late had an unusual influx of Old Country draughtsmnen for whom there is no work at present, and but little prospect for the future. Many of these have come to Canada. apparently in ignorance of the fact that with the approach of winter the demand for draughting assistance lessens. Consequently, nothing remains	for these but to accept such work as is obtainable at the moment. Instances are not unusual where draughtsmen, who 'are now out of employment, refused earlier in the season to accept yearly contracts, assuming that a long era of good times was in prospect.





INTEREST in the proposed act of incorporation of the Institute of Architects of Canada grows apace and more or less thorough discussion of the favorable and unfavorable features of the project as outlined have now enabled the architects of this country to come to some sort of conclusion as to the probable effect upon the welfare of the craft of the legalization of the act. That the scheme is in the main good and desirable scarcely an architect in the Dominion will deny. It is the outcome of a commendable desire on the part of the Canadian profession to secure in a legally recognized form certain rights which all architects in any country should possess. It aims to make of a scattered and loose body a compact and unified fraternity and to raise the educational and cultural status of a profession which has ever included in its scope men of the very highest intellectual powers of all generations. These broad, tolerant and legitimate claims are perfectly in keeping with the agnan unity which ought always to characterize the  architectural profession. Moreover, no government could long stand against them backed as they would be by the claims of right and justice. But there must be no narrow partizanship, no forcing of the hand of time, no

