<doctype type="text">12	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" DECORATIVE QUALITIES OF TILING " author="Fox, C. J.">DECORATIVE QUALITIES OF TILING.

By C. J. Fox, Ph.D.



The ornamental qualities of tiling, as a floor or pavement covering or as a wall facing, on both thc interior and exterior of buildings, has been discussed frequently in architectural and building papers and in periodicals































































Ornamental Tiling in German Bathroom.

<article title=" Ornamental Tiling in German Bathroom " author="">

devoted to home decoration; yet few attempts have been made to analyze and explain the several mechanical and chemical processes as well as the artistic principles involved in the transformation of ordinary clay into one of the most effective materials used in decorative art in its application to building operations.

The two great means by which the artist executes his conceptions are form and color, the one represented by sculpture and the other by painting. They are often combined in architecture in numerous building operations, yet there is no material in which these two great factors in decoration are united in a more felicitous and durable manner than in the baked clay tile. The adding of color to sculpture has never been successful; the adding of form to painting has, for obvious reasons, never been even attempted. Some of the world's most famous architectural monuments have been created without the employment of color effects, and it is possible to conceive of building operations in which the architectural effects are supplied solely by the application of pigments to a form which as far as decoration is concerned, is an absolutely indifferent quantity. Yet in faience or pottery

it would be difficult to tell which is the more important of the two elements of beauty, form or color. The as a flat surface cannot have form in the strict acceptation of the term; but the shape of the tile resembles it to a certain extent, and it enters as an important factor into the ornamental features of the tiled surface.

There are of course some examples of pottery ware in which the color element is entirely lacking, except in the various shades and tints of the same color, due to the characteristic action of the flame of the potter's kiln; and there are some other specimens ill which the color effects are the sole factors; yet as a general rule the artistic value of all pottery and faience is due to the combination of symmetrical form and harmonious color. This is likewise true to a great extent of ornamental the work. It does not apply to the individual tile, but to the floor or wall decoration of which the single tile or clay tesserac of the mosaic work is merely an integral part of the whole. which must be judged and criticized as such.

Clay is the only hard and durable plastic material to which both permanent form all(I color can be given. The powerful steel dies in which the damp clay dust is pressed before it is placed in the potter's kiln can be made in almost any shape. The ordinary commercial shapes include a large number of geometric patterns, in various sizes which, when assembled in the different floor and wall designs, offer the decorator great possibilities, even where in the use of one color, he relies for decorative effect upon a skilful manipulation of the joints, and the







































<article title=" Tiled Porch Floor " author="">

Tiled Porch Floor.



slight variations in shades and tints of the individual pieces.

In tile work, as in mosaic, the jointing is not only a legitimate but an essential factor in its ornamental qualities; arid to attempt to conceal or eliminate it betrays on the part of the tile setter an utter ignorance of the historic individuality of his material. As tiling in this country ceases to be regarded as a mere floor and wall covering, used chiefly for its permanent and sanitary

