<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	23

<article title=" OBITUARY –Machado, Ernest" author="">OBITUARY.

By the accidental upsetting of a canoe in Lower Darn-forth Lake, Freedom, N.H., on September 22, resulting in the unfortunate death by drowning of Mr. Ernest A. Machado, of Ottawa, a very promising architectural career has been eut short. Mr. Machado was born in Manchester, Mass., on June 30, 1868, the son of Juan

F.	Machado, of Puerto Principe, Island of Cuba, and Elizabeth Frances, daughter of Beniah Jones, of Methuen, Mass. His father's family was one of the oldest and best known families of Cuba, having been identified with its affairs and history from the time of Ferdinand







































and Isabella. On his mother's side his family was similarly identified with Massachusetts from the time of its settlement, and was related to the Bradfords, Websters, Belknaps and other families prominent in New England's history.

Mr. Machado was educated at the Salem (Mass.) High School and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, graduating from the Architectural Department of the latter in 1890. While in the Institute Mr. Machado received several prizes for architectural drawings and designs, as well as for artistie skill in photography. Some of his work formed part of the exhibit of the Institute at the World's Fair in Paris in 1890.

After graduation from the Institute of Technology, Mr. Machado began active work in his profession in Boston, gaining experience in several good offices, finally entering the office of Shepley, Rutan & Coolidge, the successors of the great Architect Richardson. Here Mr. Machado's talent began to be recognized and many important pieces of work were entrusted to him. Among the important buildings which he designed in whole or in part during this period were: The Art Institute, Pub-lie Library, and Oddfellows' Building. Chicago; the Malinehord Building, St. Louis; railway stations on the Boston & Albany Railroad, and the North Union Station, Boston buildings in connection with Leland Stamford California, and Harvard Universities, besides pub-lie libraries and public buildings in several cities.

Mr. Machado subsequently accepted a position with a

well known Boston firm, and during the four years he was with them had a part in the designing, planning and execution of much important work.

For the past nine years Mr. Machado had been in business on his own account, with offices in Salem and Boston. During this latter period he designed a large number of city and country houses, ranging in size from modest dwellings to large country seats, palatial in size and furnishings, as well as a large number of other buildings.

A short time ago lie had also opened an office in Ottawa Oat_ in partnership with Mr. A. L. Weeks, of St. John, N.B.

All of Mr. Machado's work was conspicuous for simplicity, directness and great beauty of proportion. He combined in a rare degree artistic talent of a high order with a thorough knowledge and grasp of practical details. He was particularly fond of the New England colonial style of architecture, and has left many beautiful examples of this type of work.





There occurred at Kingston, Out., on Nov. 19, the death of Mr. Adam Clark Williamson a well-known retired building contractor. Mr. Williamson was born in Shetland, Scotland, in 1837 and when 20 years of age emigrated to Canada. For the past 50 years lie had resided and done business in Kingston. As carpenter and builder, he was thorough master of his craft, having an intimate knowledge of structural operations down to the minutest detail of earved woodwork. For many years and until the failure of his health most of the highclass







































handwork done in the city was from his design and  executed under his person al supervision..

Four sons, all college graduates, survive. They are:

Dr. Archibald and George H., in Kingston, the former in medical practice and a professor in Queen's University, the latter, a journalist and city editor of the British Whig; Edward, (Ph. 1).), professor of Moderns in Geneva College, New York State, and Dr. Harold, practising medicine in Port Arthur.

