<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	25



<article title=" A CONCRETE DWELLING HOUSE " author="">A CONCRETE DWELLING HOUSE.

Recently we showed the first prize designs for a semi-detached two and one-half storey house of seven or eight rooms, cost not to exceed $4,500, submitted in the competition held some months ago by the Association of American Portland Cement Manufacturers. This month we produce the designs of Cornell Appleton, Newton Centre, Mass., who was awarded the first prize of $200 in the same contest for a single dwelling of similar height, not to exceed $4,500 in cost. The description accompanying the designs is as follows:

Monolith concrete walls. Surface fine picked. 4 inch x 8 inch x 16 inch hollow block partitions in first storey

Chimneys.—Concrete blocks with skim coat above roof.

Roof.—Variegated red slate laid in irregular courses.

ESTIMATE.

	Excavating and concrete	$2,050.00

	Lumber	4:30.00

	Mill work	350.00

	Carpenter work	600.00

	Stairs	175.00

	Hardware	150.00

	Slating	200.00

	Plastering	300.00

	Painting and staining	100.00

	$4,355.00

A monolith wall with air space could be used for a sum slightly in excess of the above figure.

Cubic contents—37.052 cubic feel.

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">

MONTREAL NOTES.

The annual expenditure in building operations in Montreal has more than doubled in the past five years— a clear indication of the city's growth, while in several ways the closing year wilt establish a record. While most architectural firms have been busy, there has been an enormous amount of work (lone by contractors in and around the city, examples of which are to be seen everywhere, apart from the large new banks, business premises, churches, etc.

One notable feature of the season 's work has been the number of large banking premises, nearly all classic in style, and each endeavoring apparently to outclass its predecessor in the height of its columns and in architectural grandeur. Indeed, one is almost forced to the conclusion that some adaption of Creek or Roman architecture has come to be accepted as the summum bonum of bank buildings. Whether or not this is a fact, it is unfortunate that some of the largest buildings should be crowded into narrow streets, with no approach whatever, thereby losing effect and unity.

The development of Victoria Square as a business centre is becoming more apparent year by year, and from a somewhat clingy section it is gradually, by the addition of some fine warehouses and business blocks of no mean architectural pretensions, assuming undoubted importance ; and if more attention were given to the lay-out of the square it would soon become one of the most interesting in the city, as its width and length offer untold opportunities in the way of architectural design.

In the residential sections there has been a large amount of work (lone, while a marked development in taste is to be noted in the number of really artistic houses to be seen, particularly in the upper and western portions of the city and Westmount. The number of apartment houses that have been erected has been one of the features of the Year's work. Sonic of the best residential districts have been invaded by these huge structures, with not always the best results, but it now looks as if the apartment house is going to be a permanent feature in the city's architecture.

The extensive addition to the Windsor Hotel by a New York architect is rapidly nearing completion, and it is rumored that the city is to have a new hotel on St. James street. Although nothing definite has been settled, Messrs. Carsley have been approached by an American syndicate for the sale of their property, while it is well known that this firm are moving uptown in a little over a year.

Some restoration work has been done at Christ Church Cathedral, under the supervision of Professor Nobbs

A.R.I.B.A.	The interior has also been decorated under his charge, with distinct success, thereby adding much interest to the building.

The Church of the Messiah on Sherbrooke, Messrs. Edward & W. S. Maxwell, architects, is now complete, and marks a distinct advance in Montreal's church architecture. It is purely modern Gothic in -style and the most has been made under circumstances of an awkward site.

The First Baptist Church is progressing rapidly, but will not be ready for occupation till next year. Messrs. Mitchell & Crighton are the architects.

The new school at Westmount has now been roofed and, judging from present appearances, will be one of the handsomest and best proportioned schools in this locality. It is entirely fireproof in construction and in style is a modern adaptation of Elizabethan architecture. Messrs. Ross & MacFarlane are the architects. Their building for tile Bank of Toronto on St. Catherine and Guy streets is also making rapid progress and promises well.

The large number of factories at present in the finishing stages in and around the city is remarkable. Not for some time have there been so many really first-class ones built. This is a class of work, it is a pleasure to note, to which more attention is being given every year by architects, while at the same time it gives great scope for original treatment.



<article title=" ASBESTOS SHINGLES " author="">

ASBESTOS SHINGLES.

Shingles are now made under a patented process from asbestos fiber and Portland cement. Owing to the enormous pressure under which shingles are manufactured, it is said that they absorb, when fresh, only about 5 per cent. of their weight of water; and when exposed to the atmosphere for a year or two that hydration and subsequent crystallization convert them into impermeable roof coverings.

