<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

plans. but would be arranged at suitable points to suit the apparatus.



No fireplaces have been shown on any of the floors. but could be bad if considered necessary in the principal rooms where the partition walls are carried up to the roof.

There would be three entrances to the basement from Sussex street and entrance to t he two court yards might be arranged from the same side. but has not been shown on the' elevation 

GROUND FLOOR PLAN—This floor would be occupied by the Department of .Justice and has been divided into suitable offices which would accommodate the minister, his deputy, the secretary of the department, the law clerk and their respective staffs. etc. Attention is directed to the four large committee rooms which have been provided on this floor immediately under the court rooms. These would be paneled in oak and have ribbed plaster ceilings.

ENTRANCE	The general office entrances have been arranged on the two sides entering from the park, as it has been thought advisable to isolate them from the main grand entrance. When the main staircase is used for everyday business purposes it loses to some extent its architectural impressiveness and it is befitting in such a building that the grand staircase should be palatial in appearance aid reserved for state occasions—separate business entrances being provided.

GRAND STAIRCASE.—The grand staircase is approached from the entrance ball and would he enriched with Canadian marbles the domical ceiling being treated with modeled plaster work. Ascending to the first floor, tile principal landing is reached, from which an adequate view of the dome would he obtained. This landing would be enriched with marble work of similar design to the ground floor, with the addition of a marble colonnade. Above this colonnade rise the four main arches on which the drum of the dime is developed. Staircases are provided at either side of the dome, giving access to the whispering gallery , the windows of which would be filled with stained glass. Access to the upper apartments would lie had by means of circular staircases.

PRINCIPAL FLOOR,—The first or principal floor contains the Supreme and Exchequer Courts, with their various offices, and the library for the several branches.

COURT ROOM These would be paneled in wainscot oak to a height of 12 feet, and finished above in plaster with modeled caps and supporting a segmental at roof of simple paneled treatment.

LIBRARY.—The library occupies a central position easy of access to all the branches. It has two detached and enclosed staircases to the gallery. A store room in connection with the library has been arranged on the ground floor. with connecting staircase. A room for the librarian could be bad on either side with direct light from the courtyards. This is not indicated on plan.

The treatment consists of a colonnade of the Corinthian order. supporting an elliptic vaulted roof, paneled as indicated on the section. The roof lights would be finished on the inside with leaded glass. The columns would be of Keen' s cement with marble bases and modeled plaster caps. and the gallery would be treated in oak with bronze railing.

JUDGES' ROOMS.—The judges' rooms have been arranged along one corridor to avoid confusion with the other branches of their respective courts, Each has a separate toilet room.

OFFICES GENERALLY--The offices are arranged conveniently along a continuous corridor, with direct light and ventilation. and with suitable toilet rooms and staircases. These latter have been kept entirely separate from the elevators.

 RAILWAY COMMISSION--This is department would occupy the second floor. The superficial deficiency of store room accommodation on this floor could he made up in the basement, and it is also suggested that one of the large rooms in the tower might be used for storage purposes. or preferably as a record room. Access may be had from this floor to the gallery of the library.

COURT ROOM, The court room would be paneled in wainscot oak to a height of six feet, with plaster ceiling having a wood cornice and ribs.

ARCHITECTURAL TREATMENT. — A heavy columnar treatment has been used throughout in order to produce a massive and dignified appearance in keeping with the purposes for which the building is intended. On tile Park elevation, a facade of double attached columns has been adopted in order to emphasize the court rooms. The sculptured pediment over the front entrance represents a central figure of Justice, supported by other figures symbolical of the various industries. Those over the corner pavilions are intended to represent Peace and War, Truth and Justice, Fame and Victory, etc. The crowning feature of the building is the great peristylular dome over the grand entrance. it reaches a height (if 171) feet above Major's Hill Park, terminating with a stone lantern over the copper dome.

STONE —It is suggested flint buff sandstone from New Brunswick quarries be used throughout in both buildings. amid also in the upper part of the bridge, grey granite hieing used up to the spring of the arches.

<article title=" MONUMENTAL BRIDGE " author="">

MONUMENTAL BRIDGE.



The bridge is simple in design. The two pavilions have been introduced to relieve the severity of its lines. An attempt has been made to keep the arches as symmetrical as the existing conditions of the site will permit. at the same time keeping the height of the bridge about the same level as the present street bridge, so as not to shut out the view over the river from that point. The conditions call only for a. foot—bridge, but if a carriage-way were desired. this might be had by forming a road along the face of the hill. south of the bridge and joining the present roadway at the southeast angle of the east block thus providing direct communication between the existing and the new buildings without having to make use of the public street. Possibly the extra convenience obtained would more than compensate for the extra expense incurred in forming this roadway.

