<doctype type="plate;text">

<article title=" EMMANUEL CHURCH, MONTREAL, QUE." author="Saxe and Archibald">EMMANUEL CHURCH, MONTREAL, QUE.

 Saxe & Archibald, Montreal, Architects.



Owing to the growth of the business section in Montreal several congregations have found it more convenient to move from their present localities to more convenient sites in the residential sections Among this number are the Emmanuel congregation, who are now occupying a very handsome building on Drummond street.

The building operations were begun a year ago last June, the edifice having been occupied since last May.











































































The formal opening. however, took place on Sunday, October 20th. Messrs. Saxe & Archibald, the architects, have given a very successful design in the Creek Ionic class of architecture, the materials being Indiana limestone and a greyish pressed brick, the combination proving a very happy one. The main auditorium of the church has seating accommodation for about seven hundred on the main floor and from three hundred and fifty to four hundred in the gallery, which extends around three sides of the auditorium. The main floor is entered through a large vestibule from three large entrances, the vestibule being furnished in Phillipsburg marble, with paneled plaster ceiling. The woodwork throughout the building is birch stained and polished a dark mahogany. In the interior of the church the same style as the exterior has been successfully carried out.

The main architectural feature of the auditorium is the arrangement of the pulpit, choir and organ case behind. The organ ease has been specially designed to harmonize with the architecture of the building and is











































































semi-circular in form, fitting in between the six ionic columns, which support the ceiling over the choir alcove. The ceiling of the auditorium is treated in a flat manner and divided into large panels with plaster beams. The church proper is well lighted from large windows on each side and artificially by means of ten ceiling lights, each with a cluster of twenty-four lamps, and a series of wall brackets. All the electric fixtures are designed after Greek models and finished in Pompeiin green.

Immediately behind the auditorium is the Sunday School, capable of seating from three hundred and fifty

