<doctype type="text">14	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" HINTS ON CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION " author="">HINTS ON CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION.

In view of the extent to which concrete is at present being employed in connection with all forms of building construction, the following suggestions to architects by E. P. Goodrich, consulting engineer of New York City, were published in a recent issue of The Concrete Review. '

Concrete has a unique and proper field. It cannot and should not be forced to compete with steel, timber or masonry under all conditions. Do not think it necessary or try to make concrete imitate other materials, either as to finish or as to structural design.

The value of concrete in the construction of warehouses and factory buildings of moderate height is unquestioned. Where tire prevention is important it finds its greatest usefulness.

Where bold or simple exterior treatment is appropriate, concrete can he employed to advantage.

As regards styles of architecture and surface finish, use the mission style of architecture or other simple massive type, rather than the elaborate classic orders.

Don 't try to imitate brick or stone by devices of centering. Let the architectural details show that the material is concrete and let it stand for itself.

Secure contrasts by means of shadows, by using deep reveals at apertures and heavy (but not heavily over-hanging) cornices and belt courses.

Simple balconies with strong supports may be exceedingly effective if relieved with ornamental iron railings or awnings of appropriate design. If iron is used it must. he galvanized or constantly painted. Don 't try to exact numerous sharp projecting edges or mouldings. Instead, design them with sweeping curves and beads.

In designing horizontal moldings, do not employ level top surfaces for projections. Remember that the concrete must flow on a slight down grade to reach all points and that air is readily pocketed unless surfaces are so sloped that it is easily driven out. Thus, horizontal surfaces should almost never be employed in moldings. Proper bevels also assist in easy removal of forms.

Very effective and easily constructed ornamentation can be secured in the form of intaglio work. Creek frets are easily worked out on the forms and are often very effective.

Relief work can be applied in stucco or cement mortar if proper metal bonds are provided and the original surface is carefully prepared to secure a good bond. Obviously, such work should preferably not lie very heavy, although with proper care very heavy masses can be satisfactorily employed. The best method of securing intricate details is to have the ornament cast separately and fastened in place in specially provided slots or set as the work proceeds. In either case ample reinforcement, both in the east ornament and for securing same in the work, should be employed.

On the other extreme, do not expect to be able to obtain large expanses of plain wall or long lines of

pilasters or cornices without slight wavings, if built in mass concrete. Such work can be secured, if necessary,

but it is costly, requiring extra heavy forms and excessive care during the deposit. of concrete. Break up such areas and long lines by proper devices. Neither expect to secure such large areas or long lines without some cracks. Such defects can be obviated almost entirely by

workmanship and use of sufficient and properly disposed reinforcements, but it is also wise so to design as to provide artificial joints along which cracking will take place, if at all, and where it will be entirely concealed.

If the practically uniform gray color of cement is objectionable its tone may be modified by applications to the surface. by artificial treatment of the surface, or by introducing coloring substances among the concrete ingredients .

Except for time crudest work, all concrete surfaces should he treated. The ordinary paints, especially of the cold water variety, are not satisfactory. Even cement grout, unless carefully applied will prove deficient. One or two special preparations, however, have

proved of value.

Stucco can be employed where special finish is required. Key joints should be formed in the body concrete and heavy reinforcement installed where stucco is more than an inch in thickness.

'Wire lath of every variety, even when carefully coated with preservatives or galvanized, has shown itself liable to disintegration when used as a frame for stucco cornices. etc.

Coloring matter can be introduced into the stucco if desired, but most coloring substances are bleached by the cement and are of short life.

Colored brick, tile, or terra cotta, if of heavy design and considerable thickness, can lie embedded in time concrete work as it is carried (in, if the concrete is rather dry in texture and if care is exercised in the proper placing of the ornamental blocks, In such work, joints must be formed and maintained uniform by the use of P roper wooden wedges and strips

Tile can be employed if it is first glued to perforated forms with common billposters' paste. When concrete is properly set, deluging the forms with water will dissolve the paste so as to allow the removal of the moulds. Copper tacks can be used to secure tile to centering, and no discoloration from rust will take place after the removal of the forms.

The impress that is left by time forms can be removed from old concrete best by mechanical treatment of time surface, Fine picking. chiseling or hammering either by hand or by pneumatic tools, will produce differing effects according to circumstances. Sand blasting has also been successfully employed.



<article title=" TO POLISH MARBLE " author="">

TO POLISH MARBLE.

Prepare a mixture of 10 parts by weight of pure beeswax or white Wax, 2 parts of Japanese burnishing fluid (Japanese Cold) and 88 parts of spirits of turpentine This mixture is rubbed on the surface to be polished by means of a flannel rag and produces a high polish.

