<doctype type="plate;text">

<article title=" THE QUEEN VICTORIA MEMORIAL, LONDON " author="Webb">

THE QUEEN VICTORIA MEMORIAL, LONDON

SIR ASTON W EBB R A Architect.



















































The wrought iron gates which form Canada 's contribution to the Queen Victoria Memorial in front of Buckingham Palace, London, and which were placed in position some time since, have now been practically completed. The gilding, which has taken some time, has added much to the beauty of the design, and the appearance of the whole work is now most artistic.

The memorial, it will be remarked, embraces an elaborate scheme of decorative architecture in the open space in front of the King's London residence. This design consists of a semi-circular terrace of stone, relieved at the point at which it is intersected by roadways by pillars, upon which the names of the Dominions and Colonies of the Empire are inscribed, according to their share of the gift. In the centre of the space thus obtained a statue of the late Queen, by Mr. T. Brock, R.A., will be erected. Another part of the memorial has been the continuation of the Mall from the Duke of York's steps to Charing Cross, immediately opposite the Canadian Government offices--which will open up a magnificent thoroughfare from the Strand direct to the Palace and the cutting of a road through the Green Park from the Mall to Piccadilly. It is at this latter outlet. at which the Canadian gates have been placed. The space in the memorial that is not occupied by masonry is laid out with grass plots and flower beds.

Sir Aston Webb, R.A., who designed Canada's gift, thus describes it: "The gates were made by the Bromsgrove Guild, Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, the work being done entirely in England. On the centre gates the complete arms of Canada are designed. On the gates on either side the arms of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New

Brunswick appear; on the pedestrian gates those of

Manitoba and Prince Edward Island. The outer stone

piers will carry two large symbolical groups, by Mr.

Henry Pegram. A.R.A., which will shortly be fixed in

position.

<article title=" THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB " author="">

THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB.

At the annual meeting of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club, held on the 3rd inst., it was decided to omit the word "Eighteen" from the title by which the club has been hitherto known. Henceforth the organization will be known as the "Toronto Architectural Club." The election of officers resulted as follows:

President, Eden Smith; vice-president, C. D. Lennox; secretary-treasurer, W. Ford Howland; committee, C. H. Acton Bond and J. P. Hynes.

Discussion regarding the proposed incorporation of the Institute of Architects of Canada led to the following resolution being unanimously carried:

Whereas the question of "registration" of architects has been brought up by the press, and as it is a matter with which the newly formed Institute of Architects of Canada and the Ontario Association of Architects are attempting to deal, the club wishes to put itself on record as follows: That the Toronto Architectural Club is not opposed to a proper form of "registration" of architects, based on education and under direct Government control, but is opposed to the form or forms of "registration" put forth by the Institute of Architects of Canada and the Ontario Association of Architects, which would mean giving the control of the profession over into the hands of certain privileged bodies of the profession.

