<doctype type="text">20	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of floor area required by the conditions. The longitudinal corridors are lighted by skylight, as shown on section and side elevation of Justice Building (see cuts).

FIRST FLOOR.—The Supreme Court is planned in the left-hand wing of the building, and is so placed that the Judges' Department is self-contained and entirely separate from either the Public or the Barristers' and Councillors' Department. all having a common anteroom placed centrally. it is to be noticed that the judges have their separate corridors and entrance to the court room, as also the barristers. councillors and public. The judges also have their own staircase and elevator. The public would use the councillors' and barristers' staircase and elevator.

 EXCHEQUER COURT.—The Exchequer Court is placed in the righ-hand wing of the building. Full accommodation as called for in the conditions has been provided, also stationery store and caretaker's rooms in addition. Owing to the symmetery of the plan, spare rooms are compulsory and four are shown.

SECOND FLOOR.—The second floor is occupied by the Railway Department, all requirements being covered, the court room being placed central, opposite to the library.

LIBRARY.—The library is central to all Departments, and is accessible by the Railway Department at the gallery level. A special, and perhaps thc most important architectural feature of the whole scheme, is the proposed treatment of the interior of the library. The possibilities must be obvious to the judges. The area of the library floor is 7,300 square feet without the galleries.

INTERIOR Treatment. .—The interior treatment of all corridors, court rooms, library and offices will be dignified in design as requisite to the use of the individual rooms, and the materials used throughout will be in keeping.

LIGHTING OF COURTS. - The buildings are designed so that the different heights of sections will not interfere with the light of courts. and all portions of buildings will he well filled with daylight.

DEPARTMENTAL Building. - The plans and sections show scheme of planning and the result covers the requirements of conditions, viz., 300,000 square feet of floor space. In 1)0th longitudinal sections of this building the half basement stories are planned only for caretaker's rooms, storage and similar purposes.

BRIDGE.—The bridge is simple, dignified and monumental, as called for in the conditions, and is in keeping with the rest of the designs. Special attention has been given to the existing slopes of the ground, steps being placed at the entrance from the Parliament Hill side, going down to the level of the bridge, as will be seen by the drawings.

GROUNDS. - We consider that the north portion of the present arrangement of walks, paths, etc., is suitable as it now stands, and especially adapted to the character of Gothic design. We have made as few changes as possible of this portion, and have planned the southerly end to harmonize.

<article title=" McDonald Agricultural College, Saint Anne de Bellevue, Que." author="">

McDonald Agricultural College, Saint Anne de Bellevue, Que.



HUTCHESON & WOOD, Montreal, Architects.



The large MacDonald College at. Saint Anne de Bellevue, the architects of which are Messrs. Hutcheson & Wood, is now in working order. The college overlooks the Ottawa river, 2() miles west of Montreal, and comprises 561 acres, which have been arranged to form three main areas First, a campus with plots for illustration and research in grains, grasses and flowers, comprising in all 74 acres; second, a small cultural farm of 100 acres for horticulture and poultry keeping, and thirdly, the live stock amid grain farm of 387 acres.

MACDONALD COLLEGE.



The buildings on the campus arc of fireproof construction. The walls are of brick and cement; the beams and rafters being of steel and the partition walls of rows of terra cotta. The roofs, as well as the floors, arc of reinforced concrete and covered with tiles. The arrangement of the buildings allows of spacious courts between them also on the front. sides and rear, so that every room has abundance of light. Every building is provided with a complete system of ventilation, whereby fresh air (warmed in winter) is furnished to every room. The buildings are heated with steam. lighted with electricity and supplied with water from the college power house.

MAIN Building.



The grouping of the college buildings makes this the

centre, as around it stand the residences for men and for women and the laboratories for the sciences. In a northerly annex of the main building, and leading off the main hall on the ground floor, are the reading room and library, which are admirably adapted for study. Above these is the Assembly Hall, where every day students will gather at the noon hour. The library has stack room  accommodation for about 13,000 volumes.

The assembly hall has a seating capacity of about 650 persons, and the installation of a pipe organ will make it well adapted for concerts and recitals. In this building are also included the school for teachers and the school of household science. as well as the administration offices.

The Biology-Bacteriology Building lies to the northeast of the Main Building. and is connected by a covered corridor. It is 172 feet long, and from 72 to 86 feet wide and two storeys high. The department of Biology occupies half of the building. On the first floor are the

the histophysiological laboratory, 48 feet by 28 feet

logical laboratory. 42 feet by 28 feet. On the second are the elementary entomological laboratory, '38 feet 1w 26 feet; the advance entomogical laboratory, 28 feet by 28 feet; the office for the lecturer, two research rooms. a store room, a large lecture room, a museum and rooms of photography.

