<doctype type="plate;text">









































































<article title=" A Handsomely Furnished Room " author="">

A Handsomely Furnished Room.

An attractive addition 'to the house owned by Mr. E. 11. Wood in Queen's Park, Toronto, is shown in an illustration of this issue. Messrs. Sproatt & Roiph are the architects. The whole room is finished in Circassian walnut panels. The mantel at one end is of Indiana buff stone. The floor is oak. The ceiling is in plaster and though finished in oil has been left to give the effect of two shades of plaster, viz., the rim and the moulded. The electric fixtures throughout are of carved wood and oxidized gold.



<article title=" A United States Idea of the Building Outlook " author="">

A United States Idea of the Building Outlook.

Construction News, of Chicago, commenting on the building situation, says: The decreases in most instances are found in a list of cities in which building has been active for a considerable period. It is not only that building has been active, but business had attained a high water mark, and it made new construction necessary in order to keep pace with the growth of these cities, commercially and industrially. They are now enjoying a temporary 'let-up. No one who is familiar with this group of cities and the enterprise of the people need think that any one of them will undergo a long period of depression. In most of them much improvement is

already visible, and it will not be long until they will be building upon just as great a scale as ever.

With the opening of spring there are indications of a revival. Building which has been in contemplation for some time will proceed, and many who were waiting a period of less activity and lower prices will now go ahead with the construction of 'buildings which they had under consideration for a long time.





<article title=" Good Crop Reports are Good News for Architects " author="">

Good Crop Reports are Good News for Architects.

Architects can find just as large a grain of comfort as any others, in the good news of crop prospects from the Canadian West. The Canadian Pacific Railway have issued their first report, based upon despatches from over a hundred of their agents in the West. No more optimistic and generally satisfactory report has ever been compiled by the company. Exceptionally fine weather prevails everywhere. Land is in good shape and seeding is general. Some places, particularly in newer sections report a big increase in acreage.

Good crops mean happy farmers, with plenty of money. Monied farmers mean finer houses for them to live in, and that is where the architect comes in for his share.

