<doctype type="text">



on.	The most durable finish for this work is obtained by dipping the ends of the shingles, which are exposed to the weather, in oil or creosote, depending upon the kind of work used, before the shingles are put into the building 

Painted brick walls are best when finished with oil paints. The walls should be well brushed and washed and all cracks or mortar joints filled up before painting. A heavy first coat of yellow ochre and oil should first be applied, followed by two or more coats of lead and oil paint The brick lining, in imitation of the mortar Joints, is seldom (lone nowadays, and is inartistic at best, the flat wall surfaces being more pleasing in color effect. In cheap work and for light courts and the like, cold water paints are much used.

Old painted brick or woodwork should be well scorched and scraped, removing all loose or dried particles of the old paint, before the new pointing is done.

handsome color effect on brick work can also be se— cured by the use of acid stains, which are made in many colors.

Plastered walls which are to be painted should also be first well cleaned and all holes or cracks filled. They should receive one thin coat of lead and oil paint, one coat of glue size and two more coats of lead and oil paint. In the better (hiss of work, the last coat is sometimes mixed with turpentine, put on rather thick and finished with a stippling brush, made for the purpose. This process will tone down the bright sheen and makes a. very presentable wall for any room.

The bathroom or kitchen sometimes has a last coat of glossy enamel paint, which makes it possible to wash the work easily and he op it bright and clean.—'' The Southern Architect."



<article title=" Framing for Sliding Doors " author="Stevenson, W. C. A.">Framing for Sliding Doors.

By W. C. A. Stevenson.,



 Sliding doors and hangers a are often condemned when they do not work perfectly. when the real fault lies in the manner in which they have been put up. Great care must be taken to avoid all settlement in the floors below, and the work throughout mast be made plumb, level, and in line. All I lie studding and other timber must be of best quality and perfectly straight, as the trouble is usually caused by tile track getting out of level and line, by the floors settling or some of the timbers warping and twisting in place after the doors have been hung. There are a number of different makes of door hangers, any one of which will give good satisfaction if properly put up according to the manufacturers		directions	which	usually	come	with them .

I am showing herewith a sketch which shows the section view and a portion of tile side view of the framing timbers for a sliding door. A slight difference may require to he made for different hangers, but in the main this is the proper method. Each different piece is indicated on the sketch, so that it will be easily understood.

Note how the track box is formed, by a 7-8 inch board,

T, B, nailed on each side, and the 2 inch by 4 inch spreader, S, on top (these are to extend as far as the doors slide back, to prevent any dirt such as plaster, etc., from working into the track and hangers). The 2 inch by 4 inch, S, also forms a tie member for the truss over the opening, the studding being well spiked into it from both sides. The inside of the studding should be boarded on the inside down to the floor, back as far as the doors slide, with cheap 1-2 inch boards, to also prevent any dirt, etc.. from working under the doors.

In putting up this work the side to which the track is to be screwed is put up first, the header, H, being put from the floor lust 1 inch higher than the door, and perfectly level. Then frame the truss as seen, and put up



























































the track board, T, 113. level and true with tile bottom of the header, II. The track is then screwed on to it, so that when the hanger is put on, and the plate fastened to I lie door, it will be just the 1 inch below the header, the 1 inch allowing for the jamb bead. The 2 inch by 4 inch. s, can now be put up to the side already up, and the other side built on the floor and raised up bodily, the bead jambs being placed as closely together as tile hangers will allow. The side lambs are held 2 1—2 inches apart, so that the doors will hove plenty of play, stops being set to the doors after they are all hung, to make the finish

Note the guide iron at the floor. This works into a groove in the door and is furnished with tile set of  hangers

