<doctype type="colophon;text">

The Canadian



Architect & Builder

A Journal of

Constructive and Decorative Art

Published Monthly BY



HUGH C. MACLEAN, LIMITED

TORONTO, CANADA.

HEAD OFFICE		-	 Confederation Life Building, TORONTO

			Telephone Main 2362

MONTREAL	-		Telephone Main 2299. B34 Board of Trade

	D.	BURNSIDE, Representative 

WINNIPEG	-	- -	Telephone 224. 330 Smith St.

	ROLAND F. HILL,	Representative 

VANCOUVER	- -	Telephone 2248. 615 Hastings St.

GEO. A. GALL, Representative



SUBSCRIPTION RATES



Canada and Great Britain $2.00 — —United States and Foreign — — $2.50

Toronto	JANUARY, 1907	Montreal







 Opinions upon the proposal to make of the archi lined in the project of an al i incorporation of the

 Institute of Architects of Canada have been pretty generally expressed of bite. Not for a long time has so much getiertli interest been evinced by the profession in any project as that which is now under discussion. Tite question of granting a charter to a Dominion organization has stirred up the provincial associations to a realization of what they stand to lose should the Institute of Archi

	tects of Canada become a	chartered body, with the pow

ers they have requested.

At a rent meeting of the P. (Q. A     held in Mont- —real on December 20 last. frank dicussion of the instithe charter of the provincial organization stood in danger. It was pointed out by Mr. Doran that the establish

ment of a Dominion licensing	body, side by side with	the



 provincial association,	constituted an infringement of the P. Q. A. A. 's charter, in that the Dominion body would have power to override its devisions. In Quebec

there also evidenced by the litre thoughtful architects a very commendable anxiety to safeguard the high standard of education . which is there required by the P. Q. A.

A.	This is proving one of the strongest factors of oppo- sition the I. A. C. will have to encouter in that p1' via', hut because architects oppose education, but because they feat' the Institute will not go far enough in the matter. 



In Ontario the struggle is going ti centre about the



self-same topic. The other day a conference was held between the Education Committee of the Board of Governors it Toronto University and representatives of till'





ciation of Architects. The latter organization had pre

sented a bill to the committee asking their co-operation

in having the provincial government undertake the examination of architects in the Province of Ontario. TIle

whole subject was vaguely presented,		but the bill appar

ently struck ihe	University authorities as inadequate and



undesirable. The wisdom of relegating to Ike provincial



 government (a body liable to periodical change in personnel and policy) the duty of setting a standard if education for the architectural profession seemed difficult for the



 Board of Governers	appreciate, and rightly so. Why should they be approached in the matter at all if they

tire merely to act as a accessories	to the	Government?	So



great have been the powers acquired by the	provincial University since its recent reorganization. and so pro nounced the policy of the Ontario Government of en trusting to it all matters pertaining to higher education. that the Ontario Association of Architects would have a 'ted wisely in turning over to the University the entire

question	of	preparing courses	if study and	examination 





T

here was a rare opportunity	at the annual banquet of the Ontario i Association of Architects. 



held in the National Club on the evening of tIn' 15th inst.. for the educationist to make mental comparisons









speakers	were President Falconer of Toronto University and Mr. W. A. Langton. The latter was at no paints to  conceal the fact that be considered, with pedagogues of a past generation, that the "club" was a necessity in educational work, whether elementary or advanced. ''Be

his club, metaphorically		speaking, driving the			children

to school. And the law is what we must invoke if we are

going to make	unwilling	 young		men train themselves 











relied upon, is a false one. If there is one thing more

'than another that modern educationists	are shouting themselves hoarse about it is thtit all semblance tif l'iil'i'h



or compulsion ill educating the young be entirely abolishof studies that love of self-improvement rather than th'tli'



of the consequences	entailed by its neglect shall be the













so in the case of engineers	at the School of Practical I Science. It is not compulsory for engineers In fake the



 University courses. It has simply become customary for young men intending to enter the engineering profession







modern educational standard in that profession demands it. that is all. For architectural students there should be also a standard, and the University should set it.

