



The New Office Buildings at Washinton.

Some idea of the class of work that is being done by the United States Government may be gained from the drawings by Messrs. Carrere & Hastings, of New York, of whom Mr. Eustace G. Bird or Toronto is an associate, for the office buildings for the United States Senate and for the House of Representatives. Reproductions of the details of some of the plans are given in this issue and will prove of more than passing interest.

These buildings occupy blocks immediately to the east of the Capitol in corresponding situations to the right and left. They will have a common base upon one street. The side of the buildings will face upon streets radiating from the Capitol, but the view between the two will be intercepted by a third radiating street. One of the buildings will provide offices for every member of the House of Representatives with all the extra necessary appurtenances, such as caucus rooms and committee rooms. The Senators will be given an office and a private office each.

The buildings are entirely of white marble on the street front and in the court yards are finished in Indiana lime stone. The main entrances are located on















































Floor Plan, U.S. House of Representatives Office Building.



the corners of each building nearest to the Capitol and while the exteriors are treated in facsimile the interiors are given individual treatment throughout. In order to obtain the necessary accomodation for the greater number of offices in the House of Representatives building, it has been planned in the form of a closed quadrangle. The Senate Building has its court open upon one side. The disposition and scheme of the plans is identical, with only such changes as are required for the slightly variant purposes of the buildings. Our illustrations represent a typical floor plan of each building and details of the bays in the courts. They are necessarily only partial. In a future issue we hope to present more complete details and views giving an idea of the whole scheme of the buildings and their relation to the Capitol.







Mr. A. B. Rice, chairman of the Public Library Board of West Toronto, has received a letter from Mr. James Bertram, private secretary ·to Mr. Andrew Carnegie, stating that Mr. Carnegie will be glad to give $20,000 towards the erection of a public library

<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Building Activity at Calgary " author="">Building Activity at Calgary.

Calgary is starting in early with its building operations this year. The winter has been one of almost phenomenal mildness—even for sunny Alberta—while the previous one was a record winter for severity. If shivering Easterners wish to know what winter is like in Alberta let them reflect upon the pleasures there this winter, of cricket and tennis until Christmas and golf throughout the winter. A Montreal Star correspondent, dealing with western conditions says:

As for building operations, they have continued without the 'slightest interference from the weather. Work has been carried on continuously upon all sorts of buildings. Six of the finest structures in Calgary, aggregating a million dollars in value, were started last fall or late in the summer, and are now either almost completed or well under way. They include the magnificent new Canadian Pacific Railway station, the Provincial Normal school, the new City Hall, a new high school, new Court House and new land titles office.

Besides scores of private residences, this winter's building list includes Cushing Brothers' new planing factory, the largest in Canada; a $75,000 apartment











































<article title=" Floor Plan, U.S. Senate Building " author="">

Floor Plan, U.S. Senate Building.



building, Lineham's four-story business block on Stephen avenue, palatial new office buildings for the Calgary Brewery, and the Standard Soap Company; and the Calgary Milling Company's thousand barrel flour mill, which is the largest west of Winnipeg, and one of the most modern in Canada, being specially designed for milling the hard winter wheat which has helped to make Southern Alberta famous. Two fine steel bridges on cement piers have lust been finished across the Bow river; one by the Provincial Government at a cost of $50,000 and the other by the civic authorities at a cost of 25,000. The latter connects the city with a chain of beautiful island parks on the Bow, which are expected to become very popular summer resorts.

The city is about to erect a civic hospital, which will cost $100,000, and Which the ratepayers have already sanctioned. About a year ago the well-known British shipbuilder, Sir John Langham and his partner, Mr. William Gladstone, son of the "Grand Old Man," visited Calgary and were so strongly impressed with the business and architectural solidity of the city that they bought property in the rapidly developing wholesale section and erected last summer a $50,000 warehouse, which

