<doctype type="text">



compound in the pores of the mortar. Lime—wash has frequently been utilized as a preservative of stone from decay. but it is said to he only of a temporary character until the protecting coat of lime is eaten through.

Professor Church, however. contends that the use of lime-wash is objectionable. as although it undoubtedly acts for a certain period as a preventive of the further influence of sulphuric aid (provided it retains its place on the decaying and crumbling walls), it must give rise to more suhphate of lime. the substance whose formation, presence and migration have been the principal cause of the decay. Professor Church suggests that if lime-wash be used at all it should have precipitated carbonate Of baryta as the chief ingredient, the baryta being as effective as lime in excluding the corrosive sulphuric acid, while at the same time it can add no injurious soluble salt to the decayed stone Those large blocks of stone which are frequently utilized for ordinary building purposes have sometimes a number of minute. microscopic fissures running through them for a short distance. this having a tendency to considerably weaken the stone as a whole, and allow water to find us way into them, thus soon producing disintegration.

There has also been used with considerable success. precipitated carbonate of baryta for the prevention of scum and discoloration on facing bricks, terra cotta, tiles, ridges. etc. The application of baryta water is considered the best known treatment for arresting the decay of stone. When a solution of hydrate of baryta is repeatedly applied in dry, warm weather with the necessary precautions, it scarcely changes the color of the stone, it forms no skin, penetrates deeply, and serves to render solid once more disintegrated stone where injured by the formation of sulphate of lime by transforming this soluble compound d into soluble sulphate of baryta. at the same time setting free caustic lime, which gradually be— comes carbonated into chalks The hardening and consolidation of the decayed stone are principally doe to those changes, but it may he weeks and sometimes months before the completion of the process. It is preferable to make the application of the baryta with a diffuser. By the experience of four years it has been shown that the baryta process involves no risk of injurious consequences, though possibly after a lapse of a few years an additional application of baryta may be necessary.

There has 'been on the market for some time a preparation termed Fluate, ' ' which renders stone and brick waterproof. It is colorless and does not affect the appearance of the material to which it is applied. The result is said to be permanent. The cost of labor and materials is computed at 1 1-2 d per foot of surface covered.







<article title=" TORONTO SCULPTOR WON " author="Alward">TORONTO SCULPTOR WON.

Mr. G. F. Alward. of Toronto. is the successful artist in the competition for the proposed statues of Baldwin and La fontaine on Parliament Hill Ottawa. Ten designs were received by the Art Commission.

ADVICE—BUILD NOW.

Now is a good time to build,'' says Architect Fitzpatrick executive officer of the Building Inspectors' Society, of New York. a national organization which keeps in touch with building matters all over the country.



The money stringency developed some peculiar effects upon the building situation. Just prior to the so-called panic everything was at the highest price, nut only materials, but labor. Wages were at. the highest point ever reached, and the amount of work done in a day was the lowest ever given. Labor was exceedingly independent and the result was that a building cost anywhere from 20 to 60 per cent. more than a very few Years ago.



Tightening of money has scared people generally manufacturers are anxious to get rid of their stock and get some money in and may be expected to make low prices on materials and while wages have not been reduced to any great extent, men are desirous of holding their jobs and are rendering immeasurably better service. It is only a question of time when conditions will be at the same old high priced standard.



''Unmistakably the people have had a stiff enough dose of stock depreciation and have seen the folly of trying to make big returns by stock gambling More and more will he brought home to them that real estate

and building constitute	infinitely safer investments,	and



it will not hue long before we may have boom times again in building.''





<article title=" CIVIC BEAUTY " author="">CIVIC BEAUTY.

An effort is being made by the leading architects of

Washington. D. C. to erect	 a more artistic' effect in the

general appearance of the city by specifying in their work the use of brick and stone in harmonious colors and discouraging the employment of materials which would tend to destroy t he artistic harmony of the particular locality in which the building is to he. Such changes have taken place in brickmaking in recent years and such a variety of clays are used that some of the best architectural effects are produced in that material. Many architects find greater pleasure in devising color schemes for the decoration of the buildings which they design than in any other part of 'their work for. although architects are primarily concerned with considerations of time, yet color must play a large part in the result— unit effect. particularly with regard to interiors. There are sonic architects who pay little attention to this particular department of their work, merely specifying that the wood and ironwork shall be painted so many coats of selected colors. and making eventual selection by proxy, or leaving it entirely to their clients,

