 <doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



fore it is better to aim only of tire possible and to spend hundreds upon that for which live hundred years ago the equivalent of thousands would have been available.

To this end the architects have aimed at designing a structure of which the cost shall be within a very definite sum, discarding everything not a absolutely essential that might militate against this end and employing everywhere the very simplest materials. The finished building will seat comfortably about eleven hundred persons. not including the stalls for choristers and clergy, and upon high festivals this number can, and doubtless will he, considerably increased.

The materials shown and called for in the specifications are, for tile exterior walls' surfaces, the extremely beautiful variety of scam-faced trap rock known locally as iron stone, whose long flat forms and rugged surfaces in the walls of both the citadel and arsenal, are familiar to every resident of Halifax. The materials of a building should savor of the locality whenever possible. a rid ironstone has the added merit of extreme economy.

For the structural trimmings both outside and inside it is proposed to employ a form of concrete. the basis of which shall be the same trap rock broken and ground into small pieces. A number of exhaustive tests of this material have been made, and in each it has proved itself worthy. For example, its absorption is but one-third that of natural limestone, a most valuable quality when one considers the biting salt winds to which it must be subjected. In a material of this sort, too, many perfectly legitimate effects are possible, such as the elaborate and delicate moulding of shafts, arches and window tracenry, the cost of which would be prohibitive if chiselled by hand from natural stone.

The two points of a church most vulnerable to fire are the organ, with its interior of thin and extremely dry deal, and the floor. As for tire organ no means for reducing the danger Ions so far been discovered, but for till' floor the simplest and most economical method of keeping it to a minimum is found in concrete. in which for the sake of extra tensile strength a network of laced light steel rods is embedded and upon this surface in both choir and sanctuary a certain patterning of tiles, etc., has been shown.

The (Piling of nave, transepts and chancel is frankly of wood, to be stunned (lark, though so designed that in the future if circumstances seem to justify such a proceeding vaulting of one sort or another may be substituted. In the lower portions, such as aisles and ambulatories, arched vaults or else slabs of masonry have been shown, that the building may be rendered us nearly fireproof as may be.

Tire roof is of slate and it is greatly to lie hoped that these may be ''graduated'' instead of the thin, equal dimensioned type commonly in use. Such graduation is almost invariably in old work abroad arid has lately,

of the instigation of the architects of the building now being described, been most success frilly introduced into the United States.

Wherever material is necessary, as for flashing, capping, etc., copper, though costly, is the one thing that

earl be counted upon to withstand the saltiness of the  atmosphere

For the rest. only the simplest materials arid those readiest to hand, have been specified. the one care of tire designers having been that such should lie always honest and appropriate first, and beautiful second.

The dimensions of the finished building are roughly as follows: Interior length of nave from narthex wall to charred arch 135 feet. width of nave from face to fare



of piers 29 feet Length of channel 80 feet, width 26 feet. Width at crossing 72 feet. height of nave from floor to under side of apex of roof trusses 64 feet. height of chancel 54 feet. Exterior height from appropriate grade to ridge line of have roof (15 feet. Height

of central tower' 1:32 feet. Width of central tower 40 feet. Exterior width (if nave and a isles 58 feet. Extreme width of building, taken at transepts. 86 feet. Extreme length 255 feet.

In addition tin the various sacristies offices etc.. a small chapel has been incorporated for earl)' celebration (If line Holy Eucharist, Lenten services, etc.. while beneath the sanctuary a small crypt is provided This would deserve a mortuary chapel and possibly as a burial place for high dignitaries.

In the structure only such offices have been provided as are strictly necessary arid even some of these. such as the working sacristy. wherein the altar guild prepares timid  arranges flowers. etc.. have for the sake of greater economy been placed in the basement though this arrangement it is to be hoped, may prove to be but a merely temporary expedient, anti that in time such important adjunct rooms as this, the chapter room. the various indispensible guilds. school rooms unit sit forth. may timid housing in the irregular and scattered group surrounding the cloister garth.

Finally, since it is scarcely to lie expected that funds sufficient to provide for the erection of the complete e building shall he immediately forthcoming it is proposed to construct only a portion if the building now, mind this will consist of tint chancel, crossing, transepts, arid three bays of the nave. In tins first construction everything that will admit of such a treatment will be left rough, nor will the great tower be carried much above tire apex of the roof Of course the front wall will hue but temporary, but by having the tracery of the great end window made now, it may lie set in this and removed to its rightful position when the nave is carried completion. Such a structure though confessedly incomplete, not lack dignity, and its dark mass, looming above die city. should. and it may well Ire hoped will, stand as a constant incentive to those who worship within its walls, to work with a hearty will to the end that it may finally lift its ever>' part proudly towards time sky, tine visible embodiment of all the noble inspirations of which the human heart is capable.

