<doctype type="text"><article title=" LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS, REGINA, SASK." author="Maxwell">LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS, REGINA, SASK.

	

<firm>E. &  W. S. MAXWELL</firm>, Architects, Montreal. 



Our aim has been to produce a dignified monumental architectural design, that shall express the purpose of the building at a glance, that shall fulfill its usefulness in the most direct manner consistent with economical planning. that shall be adapted in every way to the climatic conditions, that shall provide well lighted and ventilated rooms. corridors and stairways, without resorting to courts, lightshafts or borrowed lights to this end a rectangular building. with a central corridor on each floor and Cross circulating corridors at the central portion provided that due provision is made for the proper lighting of all communications. offers the most economical solution of the problem and thc one that is best suited to the extremes of climatic conditions here encountered.

One approaches the building by a driveway off Albert street, skirting the shore of thc lake until the Main avenue is reached, being the continuation of Smith street. This leads from the lake shore to the principal entrance. The first impression of this vista, terminated by the central feature of the front elevation crowned with the lofty, spacious and unique dome, is one that will tend to lend and impressiveness to the expanse of dignity, solemnity facade that gradually unfolds as one nears the forecourt.

The main entrance is by a triple doorway, through a spacious vestibule into the main entrance hall, treated in a dignified monumental manner. directly across the hall is the staircase of honor for the use of the executive and members, leading by two easy flights to the main or legislative flour. Flanking this staircase are four elevators, while adjacent hereto are two staircases for the use of the public.

At cacti end of the building are provided entrances, stairways and elevators giving access to all floors.

At the head of the Staircase of Honor, which is of spacious proportions, with a lofty vaulted ceiling one steps into the ante-room of the Legislative Chamber, situated beneath the dome from which it. receives its light, and on the major and minor axes of the building. To tliis room has been assigned an importance second only to that of the Chamber itself, with its monumental treatment, spacious vertical and horizontal vistas. From here the Legislative Chamber is approached by a main central entrance, and by two flanking entrances, thus providing ample circulation during a crowded session. This room has been designed after making a careful study of the principal examples of successful rooms of a like character, and it is believed will fulfill its functions in a manner capable of but slight improvement. An unobstructed view of the Speaker's rostrum from every seat in the house is obtained, as well as from every seat in the public galleries, provided on the three sides of the room. The Speaker's and press galleries are likewise well situated behind and above Ilie speaker and approached by two stairways off the rear corridor.

Tlic question of galleries is usually thc ''bete noire'' of architects in designing' a legislative chamber. They

<article title=" Design Awarded First Place in Recent Competition " author="">Design Awarded First Place in Recent Competition.

either extend to undue proportions the size of the room, rendering it difficult to arrive at a satisfactory architectural solution ; whereas, if made to overhang into the room the view of I lie public and members is unduly restricted by the unsightly projections. In this design the usual objectionable form of galleries has been overcome by placing each one in a recess specially provided for it in the architectural treatment of the room, unnecessary size and consequent acoustic difficulties being thereby avoided.

It will be noted that from the point at which one enters the building by the main entrance vestibule, hall, staircase of honor and ante-room, a succession of monumental apartments are traversed, all leading directly to the Legislative Chamber, the room above all others for which this building will be erected.

The rooms more immediately in connection with the Chaniber are conveniently situated :—The smoking rooms are directly across the corridors at the lateral entrance doors, with toilet rooms nearby. The Speaker's apartments are immediately behind the chamber, with a door from the rostrum. 'The clerk of the House, the office, sergeant-at-arms, law clerk and mail clerks are here located immediately at hand. In a mezzanine over these apartments is provided a very spacious vault for the storage of records in connection with thc transactions of the Legislative Chamber, this in addition to a vault in the office of the Chamber. Thc Council room and the Provincial Government's 's a and Premier's apartments have beeinplaced in the place of honour at the centre of the building on this main floor, with the clerks' anci business office near at hand. Members' coat rooms are convenient to, but slightly isolated from, the ante—room. The reading room, stack room and committee rooms occupy the available space in the east wing whuile the west wing is devoted to the writing room, the twelve offices for members, the public waiting room, lavatories, etc. It will be noted that all the rooms on this floor, as well as all other floors, are so arranged that there is no waste room nor clark corridors.

In order to provide for future growth, it will be noted by referring to the plot plan that extensions may l)e built at cacti end of the building, and extended in a southerly direction indefinitely, 50 as to give aiiy desired amount of accommodation without interfering with the building as at present designed; in fact, the extended building will he as complete a unit as if designed and erected all at one time. It is proposed to provide for extensions to the stack room in the future by utilizing the two committee rooms, each' of 600 feet area, and extending these, as well as the stack, out into the proposed wing as far as may be required. The staircase between the two committee rooms is so designed that a passage between the landings will be provided so that. the stack room will he a continuous room when extended. It will be noted that the reading and writing rooms have been lighted from the north, which is important in a climate where the sunlight playing on the snow gives sueli an in tense glare.

