<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" TWENTIETH ANNUAL CONVENTION ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">TWENTIETH ANNUAL CONVENTION ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

Architectural education came in for more than ordinary discussion at the twentieth annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, which was held in this city on the 15th and 16th inst. In a very exhaustive paper by Mr. W. S. Maxwell, of Montreal, which appears in another place in this issue, and again in addresses by President Falconer of Toronto University and Mr. W. A. Langton, at the annual dinner in the National Club on the evening of the 15th, the subject was dealt with.

President Falconer's remarks were listened to with much attention, as illustrating his probable attitude toward the question of higher instruction in the fine arts. In part he said:

''The architect should he a man who goes abroad and sees the architecture ·of other lands, like Greece, for instance, and understands what it is that makes the beauty of those buildings; how it is that the Parthenon must always affect even an uneducated man, unconsciously perhaps. It overawes him by the sense of its grandeur. The architect gets at the laws of proportion that constitute beauty and then like any other educated man his function is not to produce those things in an imitative way, but he should understand what those principles of beauty are and be able to educate our people by adapting them to the situation in which we live.

''Beauty is the very opposite of display. Such an understanding will prevent us from that vulgarity that we are in danger of. Vulgarity is based on ignorance, as though mere show, gaudiness and flashiness were beauty. You know this as well as I do—better probably. Real beauty is a simple thing—the simple thing that is done with knowledge, that goes down to the principles of which our artistic nature is constructed. There I think is the function of the university, too. I think the architect and university should come very close together. The university is not merely a technical school, it is quite a different thing. To the university we do not intend to turn out a man simply as a tradesman. We do not merely intend to turn out a man who can earn his living as a doctor, but in turning out a medical man our idea is that he is an educated medical man who understands the meaning of his profession and comes out with a scientific spirit..

''Architecture is a profession, therefore, that I think we can give a place to in the university. As I have often said, and it has been impressed upon we over and over again, the university may touch a profession in this way; beside the technical side of it there is the human side, and you cannot understand your own profession unless you have a conception of the breadth of humanity and of human life. If you are made more efficient as an architect you are giving expression to those things that touch human nature in its breadth and depth, through literature, through history, through economics, and in a variety of ways the meaning of human life is brought to bear upon the student, awl so an architect, who is educated in the university spirit, should go out a broader-minded man. "

''In the same connection Mr. W. A. Langton remarked: ''What we want is to get architects all over the country familiar enough with architecture to practise decently, to make buildings sufficiently conform to good taste. L have been in a French town in which there was no distinguished building at all; a little town, and all the buildings of a moderate quality; a town very much like our own county towns, but it had a character of good taste from begining to end, because there they had the tradition of class architecture, which is practised by masons in the county as well as hy architects in the city.

''There is a bill now before the university in which they are asked to conduct all examinations. We have nothing whatever to do with the admission of architects to the profession. If such government agencies take the examination of students into their hands, if the word architect is the reward of the successful examination of the student and also the title of members of this Association then

suppose the Association will become of the nature of a corporation, such as a law society at Osgoode Hall, in respect

of all members of the profession being within its membership. We are disposed to let that stand at the present moment, although we have our eye upon another method of procedure which is in vogue in the United States, by which the state licenses architects without reference to any association at all. If that proves to be the way which the government thinks education can be pressed upon the young men of this country we are quite willing to accept that and let the government license architects. Then we shall be simply a voluntary body. We would have no standing in connection with the government whatever, and anyone licensed as an architect would not necessarily belong to our body. We would become a climb, like the Architectural Club.''

<article title=" THE TORONTO WATER FRONT " author="">THE TORONTO WATER FRONT.



Mr. A. H. Chapman, of Toronto, in a paper on the Toronto water front, dealt interestingly with a problem that is clamoring for a solution. Said Mr. Chapman:

"Assuming all main tracks westward to be elevated and the lines necessary for the handling of freight and for the various sidings to be not carried west of Scott street or east of York street, we have the whole area between Scott street and York street free from all railroad crossings at grade level. There are three broad divisions to our plan: the docks, stretching about four hundred feet into 'the bay; a large plaza about five hundred feet wide through which the thoroughfare runs, and the viaduct or wall with the points of entrance at the foot of each street, a distance of about 2,000 feet.

''The thoroughfare running east and west across the plaza would run within, say, one hundred feet of the ends of the slips and entrances to the docks. in this space vehicles and the waiting public could stand ready to meet friends from 'the boats. This 11)1) feet would give ample space in front of each dock without conflicting with traffic on the main thoroughfare. The street car service for the docks would run along the southern side of the boulevard.

''For the people going from the boats to time trains or vice versa an entrance could be arranged in the viaduct wall similar to that at the toot of each street, whereby people could pass under the tracks and up to the station.

''As a park, the spaces or squares at the ends of the slips, together with about 200 feet north of the plaza and against the viaduct, would give ample space for park development as well as sufficient breadth and dignity to the whole situation. When we have

·the viaduct time development of the rest of the waterfront scheme would be a comparatively inexpensive proposition. And, gentlemen, the time has passed when we can be falsely economical in these matters. We can no longer tolerate a mediaeval castle in wood and paint for the entrance to such navigation lines as the Niagara and the Richelieu & Ontario Companies furnish. Such tawdriness is beneath he dignity of a large city that takes itself seriously.

UNION Station

''I assume that the arrangement for the station in case of the adopting of the viaduct will be a central concourse running north and south level with time track for the terminal lines, and this concourse depressed at the southern end for the approach of the through lines, this concourse then to open right on to the water front. If, however, this were unsatistactory to the railroads, a separate subway could be carried from the water front to the waiting room in the station. In either case I think we would have an ideal connection between the water entrance to our city and that of the rail,

''Viewing the composition from the south one would just see time ends of the docks and buildings jutting out into the water, and between the docks would catch glimpses through the trees of a large plaza backed by the green sward with the massive viaduct wall in the background.''

The election of officers resulted as follows: President, A. B. Gordon, Toronto; first vice-president, J. W. A. Watts, Ottawa; second  vice-president, Geo. W. Gouinlock, Toronto; treasurer, A. II. Gregg, Toronto; council, E. L. Horwood, Ottawa; II. E. Moore, Murray A. White, Henry Sproatt and .T. Francis Brown, all of Toronto.

