<doctype type="text">

the rustic courses, which alternate with plain ones in the ashlar, are made rather cleverly to represent breaking waves while oceanic forms, such as fish and seaweed, prows of galleys and other nautical emblems, are introduced wherever possible. Neptune appears in a symbolic group on one side of the entrance, and Mercury on the other. The front towards the sea is very properly simpler in design, because a full view of it can only be had from a boat. It might have been kept simpler and bolder still with advantage. For instance, the foundation of the central part has to go down much lower than the rest on account of the shape of the rock, and is treated as a pair of huge pedestals with enriched caps, while simple bold buttresses in keeping with the rugged character of the rock would have been vastly more appropriate and effective. A balcony has been thrown out from the window of the central ball facing the sea, from which there is a magnificent view of the Mediterranean and the coast on either hand, showing promontory after promontory until they lose themselves in the haze of distance.

Standing higher up on the top of the rock, and dominating the town at the seaward end as the palace does at the landward end, is the cathedral, also built at the expense of the Prince by the Architect Charles Lenormand. It has been completed some ten years, but in this clear and smokeless air it still looks quite new. It is fully 250 feet long and 100 wide, and is very complete in its arrangements, having a gable with an apse at each end, nave and two aisles, triforium and clear storey transepts with aisles and cupola with pendentives over the crossing. There is a wall chapel in each bay of the aisles, with either 'an altar or a confessional in each. The sanctuary has a circumambulatory with five radiating apses, and at each side chapels sacristy, etc. The style































<article title=" Oceanographic Museum, Monaco " author="">

Oceanographic Museum, Monaco.

is Norman with a Byzantine feeling in some of the details and Lombardie in others. The gable is carried up half as high again as the nave and forms a huge mass that dwarfs the rest of the building into insignificance, and for no apparent reason, for the part above the clearstory is windowless. It has the effect of the stage end of a theatre, only it is at the front instead of at back. The whole building is of stone, inside as well as outside. with the exception of the vaulting, which is done in plaster in imitation of stone, and very badly managed, the longitudinal effect being entirely destroyed by lifting the portion over each bay into a sort of shapeless oblong dome. The confessionals, however, have been designed in harmony with their surroundings, which is somewhat unusual, since in most continental churches they are merely cheap wooden boxes, quite destitute of architectural character

One cannot but regret that in this church a great opportunity has been missed. There is a total want of cohesion about it. It impresses one, not as a composition,







































































<article title=" Cathedral Interior, Monaco " author="">

Cathedral Interior, Monaco.





but as an aggregation of separate parts and details, each standing out by itself without being in any way subordinated to the general effect. Expense has not been spared, 'and there are marble shafts ·and carving in abundance, but the whole thing is cold, dead and uninteresting. Perhaps the best feature is the high altar, which is of white marble with some mosaic and has been kept of moderate size and in good taste. 'There is in Nice a large church in Italian Gothic by the same architect which has the same faults as this one and is equally disappointing.

The palace is mostly Renaissance with some recent

