<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE ARTISTIC EXPANSION OF STEEL AND CONCRETE " author="Walker, C. Howard">THE ARTISTIC EXPANSION OF STEEL AND CONCRETE*



The artistic use of steel and reinforced concrete is considered a new problem in architectural design.

Wherever a combination of materials which is somewhat new in character becomes usual by the number of its examples. here appears a desire to analyze its component parts. to make its architectural expression) characteristic, to enroll it under architecture raisonne and naturally to exaggerate its peculiarities in the process. The intention is excellent and admits of no Contrary argument. What can be more undeniable than that architecture should express structure, and that unusual structure should demand unusual architecture? If any content ion is at all possible it can be merely in relation to the degree in which this construction is unusual, and, as a corollary, as to how unusual the architecture must be to express it. Is reinforced concrete new in the elemental al factors of structure, and to what extent? Its main factors are vertical supports and horizontal loads (in which it resembles G reek structure), both of which are reduced in cross sections to areas less than in any other construction. it has no structural arch, though it has curved trusses or beams (in which it does not resemble Roman structure) . It has continuous vertical factors with the horizontal factors inserted between (in which it resembles much of Gothic architecture), and it has horizontal planes in its floors which appear on the facade, in which it is in no way unusual. What are the differences, apart from the areas of its cross sections, between it and other structures?

First, it is made up. as far as its vertical factors arc conceived, of slender piers; second, as far as its horizontal factors arc concerned, by beams of great possible span ; and both piers a rid beams are each homogeneous. not built up of separate blocks as in stone or brickwork, and the before carbels are inconsistent. A reinforced concrete structure is therefore a pier and beam structure of slender supports and long spans, its inter-columniation being much greater than in any previous type of building. and from our constant association with shorter spans the beams seem weak.

The openings between the piers are all usually large, the whole structure appearing to be slight and undeveloped. Up to this point the choice of treatment seems to be merely as to whether the continuous vertical supports shall be announced or the successive planes of the floors. Tire decision as to which of tile two methods of expression shall be adopted depends entirely upon the location of the building and upon the proportion of its height to its width. Isolated buildings of great height may well lie treated with long, vertical lines ; but, in the majority of eases, the building requires a horizontal treatment. as it is associated with other buildings in the same block. amid its assertion of vertical lines is river— whelmed by the length of the base line of the block. Also



*	Paper read by C. Howard Walker before Lie recent Convention of the American Institute of Architects.

the vertical lines are ineffective in shadow, as they can have but slight projection. arid as they are merely surface indications of interior structure arid are not buttresses. Horizontal lines, on thc contrary, always produce shadows. In most cases, therefore. the treatment of reinforced concrete buildings by horizontal lines announcing their floors (the distances of which apart are of much more nearly fixed dimensions than are tile intercolumniation of piers or tire height of verticals) is bet— for in relative proportion to adjacent buildings, and

affords stronger evidence of purpose than does the exaggeration of the verticals.

The apparent weakness of the long lintel has been mentioned. This can be modified in several ways, either by crowning the centre. which is in of little value in long spans a rid is inconsistent with the concealed structure, or 1w arching the lower line of tile lintel, or by bracketing at the piers. The cornice is capable of any treatment which does not suggest stone corbels or modillions. The next problem is that of the necessary filling treatment of

spaces between fact ors of main structure of the openings between the piers and the successive flours. This is manifestly a screen only, whether of plain surface or of fenestration. It supports nothing. Its structural requirements are merely those of frames to openings and

of surfaces between these openings. As its structure is unimportant and can he done in many ways. there is no more reason that it should be announced than that the palm of a man's hand should announce the bones beneath. The anatomical structure the building is adequately recognized when the piers and lintels are acknowledged in fact, it is not necessary even inn architecture 

raisonne to even announce them, provided they are not contradicted

The suggestions for this secondary treatment of curtain walls between main structural factors may either be derived from minor structure or may be surface ornament only If from minor structure re, it is probable that it will evolve into a system of slightly recessed vertical panels. As tile vertical factor's in the structure are usually more in number than tile horizontal ones. and as these factors are slender, the stiles if such paneling would be narrow. Vertical paneling, whether of the type of perpendicular Gothic or the panels with modeled or mosaic borders of Byzantine in work, or the renaissance paneling if Fira Gioconda, are all suggestive of possible treatment. The frames to the openings can be treated like any frames. either simply or elaborately, as they are simply borders confining spaces. If. on the other hand. the surfaces are not to announce the minor structure. they may either be plain or hare surface ornament. in tire form of all-over patterns. low relief, mosaic or sgraffito. care being required only that the scale of the pat tern or relief shall not be so great that it cannot lie apparently readily carried by a thin wall. Deep reveals and soffits are necessarily artificial and put expressive of

