<doctype type="plate;text">

<article title=" LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS, EDMONTON " author="">

LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS, EDMONTON,

ALBERTA*

















































In submitting cuts of the Alberta Parliament Buildings, now under construction in the city of Edmonton, a reference to the site selected might not be amiss.

The building will be situated on the hill previously occupied by the Hudson Bay Company's chief factor's residence and overlooking the plateau on which the Hudson Bay Company's old fort buildings still stand, some thirty odd feet below. It is bounded on the north by Saskatchewan avenue, and the centre line of the building is directly on the centre line of Eighth street. The grounds consist of about twenty-seven acres, and occupy that. portion of the Hudson Bay Company's 's Reserve known as the "Old Fort Site," which consists of a rounded hill and plateau standing well out into the North Saskatchewan valley. and commanding a magnificent view of the valley up and down stream cast arid west. The location is nearly central in the city of Edmonton in an easterly and westerly direction, and being situate upon the hill overlooking the river, commands a position nearly central between Edmonton and Strathcona in a northerly and southerly direction. In these respects and from a scenic standpoint commanding view and point of present and future convenience, the site could not be well excelled.



GENERAL DESCRIPTION.



This building is being built in the form of a

having the main facade parallel to. and 200 feet. south of, Saskatchewan avenue, and the main entrance directly opposite the centre line of Eighth street. The building



*Plans prepared by A. M. Jeffers, architect to Alberta Legislature, and John Chalmers. structural engineer under the supervision of Wm. England, structural engineer and architect of Winnipeg Final revision made by Professor Percy E.

Nobbs, McGill University, Montreal.

is designed on strictly classical lines, following the lines of the Corinthian order.

DIMENSIONS.



The main entrance or centre pavilion is 83 feet wide, flanked on east and west. sides with administrative wings,









































Section of North and South Axis through Centre of Dome.



each wing being 130 feet long, exclusive of entrance steps, which extend away from the ends a distance of 42 feet each.

The main entrance pavilion including entrance steps extends north from the main facade a. distance of 75 feet from which point the building measures on its north and south axis two hundred and ninety-feet.

