<doctype type="text">

and pilasters which arc not needed to indicate piers are amongst the examples cited of this Solecism in design. Steel and concrete structure can, however, he well expressed in this manner, the engaged column often following literally the support within it. and the enthiatures indicating the deep girders. It is, of course. unnecessary that either the caps or the mouldings of the entablatures follow classical or other precedent. excel lent opportunity being afforded for variants suggested by the relative proportions of beams to lintels and of both to the facade. Original capitals especially may be suggested by the bracketed forms at the tops of vertical supports and may he of as simple geometric type as are many of the Mohammedan capitals. The sole reason that well-known styles are cited iii connection with the possible treatment of steel and concrete forms is as a means of explanation of the character of the forms which may naturally be developed from the structure.

The design and ornamentation of the interiors of steel and concrete structures, in which the steel is covered, is not unlike that of any structure of columns, slender piers and beams.

In the cases which at times occur where protection from fire does not demand that steel structure shall be covered, and in which exposed steel is largely in excess of accessory concrete, the problem of artistic treatment becomes of a different character. Such structures are armory and large hall arched trusses, bridge spans, etc.. i.e., either straight or curved trussed beams. These are especially interesting in elevated railway structures and elsewhere where they are so frequently and continuously conspicuous, and where they arc in this country so persistently made utilitarian only, with but little attention paid to the possibility of subtle line. This is all the more to be deplored from the fact that. metal if scientifically related in its form to strain and stress takes naturally sonic of the most delicate and subtle carves possible, but the custom. because material is cheaper than labor, is to erect structures assembled of straight lines only. with the occasional use of curved lower members. This is the principal reason for the apparent crudeness of steel structures. They are articulated structures, built up of component parts bolted together. The interstices are larger in area than the factors of structure. and the structure has therefore a lattieed cobweb effect. Its satisfactory appearance depends entirely upon the design of the cobweb.

The lines of the main factors of the trusses can have the spring and curve which are so characteristic of metal under pressure while the minor factors of struts, rods. braces, etc., may he assembled, so that certain combinations repeat and others indicate design and their silhouettes may be studied. For a steel truss structure inside its main lines is effective by its silhouette alone. In many cases the mere multiplicity of parts is detrimental to scale; the perpetual crossing amid recrossing of lines being more suggestive of wreck than of safety. So much is this the case in parallel bridge trusses that covering the structure or filling the interstices of the two outside trusses is at. times advisable to give apparent stability to the span.

<article title=" SKETCHING CLUB OF THE P. Q. A. A." author="">SKETCHING CLUB OF THE P. Q. A. A.

The third annual general meeting of the Club was held on January 15 last, at their rooms, 5 Beaver Hall Square. The various reports submitted show that things are in a flourishing condition, although a late start was made this session. Since January, 1907, sixteen weekly meetings were held nine lectures, two sketch design competitions, one discussion, two Committee meetings, one club night amid one meeting adjourned. Two exhibitions were held at the rooms, one of the winter's and one of the summer's work. The work submitted showed an improved standard over the preceding years, although in the summer competitions the number of competitors showed no increase. However, as far as measured drawings are concerned, it has been pointed out that tile work worth measuring has been nearly all measured already, so that time summer work will have to be rearranged. During the past summer the Club held excursions to the following places, where interesting specimens of local work are found : St. Genevieve and Terrebonne, as well as visits to modern buildings in course of erection, in-eluding Mac Donald College at St. Annes' and a new convent on Sherbrooke.

A gratifying increase in the attendance at lectures was noticeable the following being a list of last year's work:

Jan. 16 General meeting.

Jan. 2:3.-—-—'' English Architecture,'' lecture by Prof. Nobbs.

Jan. 30.—-'' Leaded Glass,'' lecture by Mr. Lemasnie.

Feb. Sketch Design Competition

Feb. 13.—'' Electric Installation,'' lecture by Mr. Philip Lahee.

Feb. 20. "Corinthian Order,'' lecture by Mr. .1. 13. Anglin.

Feb. '27. ''A Trip Through Europe,'' lecture by Mr. A Byers.

 March 6. Scotch Baronial Architecture.'' discussion



March 13. —'' English Gothic Cathedrals,'' lecture by Mr. C. Burgess.

M arch 27 Meeting adjourned.

 April 10— Committee meeting.

April 17.—'' Architectural Iron Work," ' ' lecture by Mr. Stight.

The present. winter session opened on December 4, 1907, when an interesting talk was given by Mr. Randolph Bolles. architect, of New York. on the work and methods of the '' Ecoledes Beaux Arts.'' This proved mere than interesting, being on the eve of the competition work, and, judging by results, has had an effect on t he students' ' work.

A feature of the ensuing session '.s work has been the Club Nights,'' these being a meeting of members for study in the library and of a more social order than lecture evenings. These have proved to be a distinct success and have been instrumental in infusing a little ''atmosphere '' which is usually looked for among students of the arts. Water coloring is also being taken up seri

