<doctype type="text"><article title=" HOW TO PRESERVE STONEWORK " author="Brown, W. M.">HOW TO PRESERVE STONEWORK

By W. M. BROWN, C. E.



All stonework is more or less subject to decay. The causes which operate upon it in this direction are partly of a chemical and partly of a mechanical character. The deleterious elements in the atmosphere of large cities are the cause of much of the decay observable hi public buildings. and it is particularly so where there are chemical works or large manufactories that give forth large volumes of smoke or diffuse obnoxious gases. The decay may also be traced to the absorption of water, so that it will depend upon the nature of the stone whether it will he very susceptible to the influence's of the weather, or be able to withstand the variable changes that may occur, without sustaining any dam aging effect. Whatever may be contrived to cheek the admission of water into the heart of 'stonework is likely to succeed in arresting any decay that might proceed from that source. One of the best methods, however, for cleaning stone buildings is by using clean water forced through the hose of a fire engine or similar operation. The method of using the sand blast, or the re-working of the face of the stone by whatever means, are now considered to be a mistake, as upon the ''skin'' of the stone being removed the ''pores'' are then opened. and disintegration and decay are frequently the result.

Chemical action upon the stone occurs when the pores become filled with water. and the surface becomes exposed to the atmosphere. Mechanical action may be said to take place whenever the moisture in the stonework becomes frozen. thus causing expansion of the cementing material of the stone, when disintegration ensues. There have been several devices resorted to in cleaning stonework, and we would here indicate some of the methods.

In France there has been introduced a certain composition called ''Lithol,'' which is used for cleaning stonework. There are various substances which are added to the usual hydrochloric acid, so as to lessen its danger anti increase its efficiency. The following is a note of the various ingredients and proportion of same used in its composition ''Five grammes of bisulphate of soda arc dissolved. in one-tenth litre of warm water; five grammes of powdered cream of tartar or bitartarate of potassium are dissolved by shaking in 235 grammes of hydrochloric acid, and one-tenth of a litre of water is then added. These two solutions are then mixed, when a certain a mount of sulphurous acid wilt be evolved 35 grammes of oxalic acid are dissolved in half a litre of water at 140 degrees F., and added to the previous mixture, and then the whole is filtered. These operations may be carried out in glass or enameled vessels. The solution should not be left unstoppered, as in tune the sulphurous acid would be changed.''

There are several devices that have been tried with more or less success to remedy decay in stone. On sonic portions of St.. Paul's Cathedral in England, and more especially underneath the coping stone which is round the base of the dome, there is to he found a grey or Mack substance, which in some places is about three-quarters

of an inch thick. It can be easily powerered and under the microscope shows no trace of organized growth. The following is its percentage composition. according to analysis by E. G. Clayton, F. I. C. ''Water, 24.54; calcium phosphate 2 .22 calcium silicate, 1.63 ; magnesium silicate. 0.67 iron silicate. 2.40; arid sand and uncombined silica. 8.06.'' The deposit, therefore, consists chiefly of calcium sulphate hydrated together with some silicious matter. This principal constituent is supposed to be chiefly' formed by the action of the sulphuric and sulphurous 'acid iii the smoke from the surrounding chimneys upon the stone, aided in some degree by the action of rain.

There is a material termed ''soapstone'' which possesses what may be considered extraordinary qualities in counteracting atmospheric influences, especially those which are apt to cause the corrosion of iron and steel. It is considered that there is no other material which is capable of laying hold of the fibre of iron and steel so readily and tenaciously as this. It is remarkable that in China soapstone is extensively utilized in the preservation of structures built of sandstone and other stones that are liable to crucible from atmospheric effects, and even time powdered coating of soapstone on some of the obelisks in that country has been the means of their preservation for hundreds of years.

In some cases common drying oils, a mixture of linseed oil a rid sulphur, linseed oil and beeswax, solutions of various gums and resins, have been utilized for this

purpose with considerable success. Oil has also been used frequently with success, when it is applied thin. and when the stone is perfectly dry. Also a solution of common soap dissolved in boiling water, allowed to dry, and then a solution of alum dissolved in water applied, has been found advantageous.

Those parts of the stonework of buildings most liable to decay are the lower mouldings. the tops 'amid under parts of cornices. and string courses owing to the percolation of the water through the stone. When oil is applied to these surfaces it would prevent the water sinking into the stone, and so counteract in some degree the tendency to decay. An experiment has been tried to make mortar watertight by utilizing silicate of soda and soap and alum with cement. It was discovered that the effect. of the silicate of soda lessened the absorption of ash mortars about 50 per cent. The soap solutions alone did not give increase of strength. hut decreased the permeability about 50 per cent., while the effect of alum and soap strengthened time mortar, arid hardened it. with 50 per cent, decrease in absorption. The mixture was composed of 5 per cent, solution of ground alum and water, and a 7 per cent, solution of soap and water. The alum water was mixed with the mortar in the proportion of one-half the ordinary gauging water; and then the application of time soap solution was made to bring the mortar to the required plasticity. Time action of the soap arm alum together cause the precipitation of an insoluble

