<doctype type="text">



<article title=" NON-CRYSTALLIZATION OF CEMENT " author="">NON-CRYSTALLIZATION OF CEMENT.

In a recent issue of "Concrete" some reasons are advanced for the non-crystallization of concrete, particularly in concrete blocks and similar products. In this connection a correspondent writes:

In the first place, it is essential for concrete material to be thoroughly saturated with water in the first mix, in order to crystalize. In the next place, the material must be cured in a damp, shady place, where it will cure slowly. Water should be applied as soon as any part of the material begins to reach its natural color and should be applied daily until the concrete sheds it. People in general are using the damp process in the manufacture of cement blocks. Many of them are unable to secure proper crystalization under this system. Why? Because the makers have been informed that it is sufficient to put water on the blocks after they have set. This is a great error. By that time, the cement has air-slacked and lost its power to crystalize. Water does not aid matters then. Following this false plan results in a weak, porous, crumbling block.

In order to make cement block worthy of the name they should be made waterproof, fireproof and frostproof. This can be accomplished only by using clean materials, proper proportions, thoroughly mixed, and, above all, thoroughly saturated with water in the first mix and properly cured. Wet material equivalent to a stiff mortar can be handled only by machines that strip with a gliding movement. Ornamental face-moulds, where the gliding movement cannot be used should be made of some incorrodable metal, like copper, brass, or aluminum. Where rock-face block are made in the moulds, the face may be made with a 1-2 inch facing, 1 :2, in the damp process. The body of the block, being made under the 'wet process, is thoroughly saturated with water and so will supply moisture to the face; in case

this necessary water does not come through at once, a fine spray should be applied to the face of the block, within two hours of the lime it is delivered from the mould.

The latest ''wrinkle'' in making cement block is to manufacture a smooth waterproof block and then apply a rock, ornamental or marble face with compressed air. Under this new process, the face may be 'applied to any mooth concrete block or wall. It is a patented method and does the business. Many people consider the appearance of block treated 'by this system superior to that of cast stone.



<article title=" LIGHTED BY LUXFER PRISMS " author="">LIGHTED BY LUXFER PRISMS.

The accompanying illustration shows the fine new premises at Montreal of Henry Birks & Son, the well

Premises of Henry Birks & Son, Montreal.



known jewellery firm. Attention might be directed to the up-to-date fittings supplied by the Luxfer Prism Company—the sidewalk prisms illuminating the basement and the special fittings for lighting the showrooms being noteworthy items in the new building.







<article title=" REFINISHING PINE FLOORS " author="">REFINISHING PINE FLOORS.

In describing the manner of treating a pine floor that has been varnished and in which the boards have shrunk, producing cracks, but which otherwise is in fair shape, the ''Painters' Magazine'' says: First have the floor thoroughly cleaned, examine it to see whether it is marred so badly by wear, that it will not look well in the natural finish in which ease it is best to stain or paint

it.	If it is in fair enough condition for revarnishing, knock off any high gloss still remaining with sandpaper and dust.

