<doctype type="text">



ceive a thin priming coat. composed mostly of oil and at least two additional coats of lead and oil, paint, colored as desired. Two coat work is not. sufficiently protecting to the wood and does not. cover thoroughly ·or give an even color tone. Boiled linseed (01 will result in a glossy finish. Where a flat or d dull finish is desired, turpentine should be used in the last coat instead of the oil.

To get practically perfect work, the wood should be



painted with a thin lead and oil or creosote coat on the back, before it. is put on. This will keep out all moisture heat ·or cold and prevent shrinking, warping or cracking

Good enameling of woodwork is seldom done in less than four coats. The first. two coats should be of lead and oil and the last two of glossy or flat enamel. white or colored as desired. When dry. each successive coat, except the last., should be smoothly sandpapered. In fine work, from five to eight coats are employed, usually half the number being lead and oil coats and the balance enamel coats the latter being smoothly and evenly rubbed down with pumice stone and oil to the desired lustre.

The staining, varnishing and finishing of hardwoods require greater care and more skilful workmanship and experience than painting and should not be attempted by anyone not proficient in such work.

Such woods as oak, ash, chestnut, mahogany, primavera, walnut and butternut, are open grained woods and require filling before and of the finishing is done. Paste or liquid fillers are both used, the paste being the better. and are usually colored to tone in with the desired effect. Such woods as cherry, sycamore, maple, birch gumwood, redwood, cypress, poplar, hemlock and pine being close grained, require no filling

In addition to time filling, all woods which are to he varnished should receive a first coat. of pure gum shellac. If a darker finish than the natural color is desired, a coat of stain must he applied before the shellac. Oil. water and acid stains are obtainable hut for genera] purposes the oil stain is most satisfactory. If a natural finish is desired, white shellac should be used. In colored finishes this may be replaced by orange shellac, it being somewhat cheaper. The shellac should he smoothly sandpapered before any varnish is applied.

The kitchen and pantry and wherever a good and inexpensive natural finish is wanted, two finishing coats of colorless or white varnish are applied in addition to the shellac, merely sandpapering smoothly between coats. For durability such as is called for in the kitchen, pantry or bath room. it is always best to leave the last coat unrubbed with the fall gloss. Where an inexpensive fiat or dull finish is desired. varnish mixed with turpentine or Flattine is customarily used for the last coat.

For better class of work in the principal living rooms or chambers, three or more coats of varnish should be used and the work should he smoothly rubbed 'after each coat with pumice stone and oil to the desired lustre. A very popular finish for hardwood is termed an egg-shell

finish, it being neither too bright. and glossy or dull and flat.

For good exterior varnished work, in addition to the oil stain and shellac, at least two heavy coats of outside 'or spar varnish should be used. sandpapering but  lightly between coats and leaving the last coat. with the full gloss. Although a bright gloss is considered by some an objection for outside work. the action of the elements will soon reduce the sheen

The finishing of floors is perhaps the most difficult of all, and the best method will always remain a problem.

A fair finish for ordinary floors is two or more coats of boiled linseed oil, applied hot arid brushed on. The first coat should lie flowed on thick and allowed to dry and absorb thoroughly before the succeeding coals are put on. In floors receiving hard usage, as in the case in the kitchen. pantry and bathroom where no varnish has been used, it is a good and economical policy to go over the floors once every month, with a good coat of boiled linseed oil, applied with a soft cloth or flannel.

A better and moderate cost floor finish, is to apply one or two coats of hot boiled linseed oil and one or two coats of floor or rubber varnish.

For hardwood floors the waxed finish is perhaps the mast effective. The floors should first receive a good coat of hut boiled linseed oil. which is to be allowed to dry thoroughly. Pulverized beeswax is then lightly strewn over the surface and I thoroughly rubbed in. The polishing is usually done with a long handled weighted brush. To keep waxed floors in good repair, it is necessary to use fresh wax- and polish the same 'about once every month, When waxed floors become too thickly coated and dirty looking, they must he scraped off and  refinished.

Floors may be finished natural of stained and sand-

papered or rubbed the same as is mentioned for the woodwork, if a better class ·of work is desired.



Porch and veranda floors should always have the tongue and groves coated with thick white lead while they are being laid and should receive two more coats of bad and oil paint.

 Another question liver which the owner and architect often disagree, is the finish of the roof and other shingle work There is no doubt but what two or more coats of lead and oil paint furnish the most durable and moisture proof coating, hut here especially is the glossy finish must objectionable. Creosote shingle stains give a flat color tone 'and, being of a thin mixture, do not fill or destroy the artistic texture of the shingles. These stains are so much cheaper than oil paints, that the owner can afford to paint the roof oftener and be assured of the best effect. These stains are also used for shingled walls. gables and dormers

Where the natural color of the shingles is to he retained, they are usually finished with two or more coats of boiled linseed oil, well brushed on. Each coat should be allowed to dry thoroughly before the next one is put

