<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Largest Single Office Building in the World " author="">

Largest Single Office Building in the World.

The largest single office building in the world is to be the City Investment Company's Building at Broadway and Cortland streets, New York. It is now in course of construction. The architect is Francis IL. Kimball. The Cement and Engineering News of Chicago says of it that its claim to distinction is that its eclipses all others in the matter of cubic capacity arid floor space. These figure up to 10,300,000 cubic feet and 500,000 square feet respectively. The Hudson terminal buildings will have a greater combined capacity but as these twin structures are entirely separate from roof to street level, it is hardly fair to compare them with the City Investment Company's building, In the matter of height the latter surpasses every other structure in this city, with the exception of the tower of the Metropolitan Life Insurance building and the Singer tower. Measuring from the sidewalk level at the centre of Cortland street to the extreme top of the building it will be 480 feet. The height above Broadway is slightly less, while that above Trinity place is somewhat greater, owing to the difference in level of these two streets. The building occupies a front stage of 105.5 feet on Trinity place, and extends through to Broadway, where its frontage is but 37 1-2 feet.

A feature of the City Investment Company's building, which above all others impresses itself upon the observer, is thc fact that a deep recess or 'court is formed in the structure on the Cortland street side. The building is thus divided into four distinct portions. The central building rises above the rest of the structure, consisting of 33 stories, all told, while the two pavilions and the Broadway wing are but twenty-six stories high, or about 370 feet above street level. The object of having a light court on the street side of the building rather than on thc inner side of the block is That it provides more light for the same area, and hence provides a larger number of light ''outside'' offices in the central part of the building.

The walls of the building are of Indiana limestone up to the sixth floor. and above this of special brick with terra cotta trimming arid copper cornices. A feature of the building is the arcade, which runs from Broadway clear through the building to Trinity place. The arcade is formed with arched portals at each end, and occupies the entire width of the Broadway frontage. The height of the arcade is about 40 feet. It is finished in veined satuary marble with breche violette columns. The ceiling is barred, vaulted and domed and elaborately frescoed.

Twenty-three elevators will 'handle the transportation of passengers. Twenty-one of them are arranged in three banks which open on the arcade, and run to the seventeenth, tenth and twenty-sixth stories respectively. They are 'of the plunger type. and the excavations for the plungers of the elevators, which will travel to the twenty-sixth story are probably the deepest bores ever made for this purpose Above the twenty-sixth floor there are two electric elevators, which will carry passengers to the top or thirty-third floor level.

The building is carried on concrete pile foundations sunk to rock 80 feet below the street level. Unusually large foundation girders were required, one of which is a triple-web 90-ton girder 9 feet high, 37 feet long and 5 feet wide. The basement and the sub-basement, which extends 30 feet below the curb level, will have an area of 32,000 feet. It is estimated that time building will weight about 86,000 tons. and the steel structure about 12.000 tons.

<article title=" How Prince Rupert will be Planned " author="">How Prince Rupert will be Planned.

''We are going to lay out the site of Prince Rupert so that it will become the most model, most sanitary, and yet the most artistically planned city on the continent.'' This is the statement made recently by Messrs. Franklin Brett and George D. Hall. landscape gardeners, of Boston, who have just returned to the east after making a survey of the site of the city which is to be built at the Pacific coast terminus of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway. Messrs. Brett and Hall. it will be remembered. were recently awarded the contract by the G. T. P. for the laying out of the model townsite, and it is said they are to be paid for the work a sum in the neighborhood of

 $10,000.

The streets of Prince Rupert will be broad arid airy, and diagonal or 'cut'' streets will be unknown. The blocks will be numbered in such a manner that a. perfect stranger in the city will not have any difficulty in locating an address when once he has been given an idea of the plan.

It appears. according to the statements of railway officials, that only about one-third of Kaien Island will be available for the city, because, like Montreal. it has a mountain rising in the centre to the height of 2,300 feet

—something like three times the height of Mount Royal. The railroad is to cross the mainland to Porpoise Island and then to Kaien Island by means of bridges, the first of which will be about a quarter of a mile in length, and the second some 200 feet long. The plan most favored is to have the shipping and wholesale 'business on the first level, which rises to 75 or 100 feet above the water; the retail business and the public buildings on the second level, which is some 200 feet high, and forms a sort of ridge; arid the residences still further back on a third level. which rises about another 100 feet.

There are to be several large parks. There is an excellent site for one on a central elevation, another at Point Hays, named in honor of the president of the G. T. P. and a third at the southwestern end of the city. Digby Island, just west of Kaien Island. will be developed for residences.

The site lends itself to the laying out of a beautiful city, The series of plateaus on which the town will be built extends for a distance of about a mile back from the water. Behind this rises the mountain — Mount Morse—from which a beautiful view is obtained of the glorious waterways which lead to the harbor, stretching away in delightful vistas. Opposite Kaien Island to the west. forming an effectual breakwater for the harbor, lies Digby Island, occupied by the Indian reserve of the Tsimpshean Indians. To the east is a beautiful lake, Shawatlans. meaning fresh water, which will supply the purest drinking water to the new city, At the foot of the lake is a fall of about 50 feet head, with great power possibilities, and it is from the development of this power that the city will obtain its electricity for lighting, street ear, manufacturing and other purposes.





<article title=" Toronto Building Increases " author="">

Toronto Building Increases.

Toronto building permits for last week previous to the holiday showed a rapidly increasing scale in the values of buildings proposed. The total value for the first four days of the week is $188,090, and the permits taken out on Thursday are not far short of half the total amount in value. Following are the figures: Monday, $30,250; Tuesday. $42,950; Wednesday, $37,115; Thursday, $77,775. The permits taken out are almost entirely for dwellings of the medium class.

