<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BUILDERS' EXCHANGES HOLD ANNUAL MEETINGS " author="">BUILDERS' EXCHANGES HOLD ANNUAL MEETINGS.

Unusual interest attached to the annual meeting of the Montreal Builders' Exchange, held in that city on the 13th inst. Mr. J. H. Lauer, the secretary, in his annual report, gave a full account of the proceedings of the year, laying especial stress upon the increase of membership, which made the Montreal Exchange ''the strongest in Canada. and one of the strongest on the continent.'' It was presaged that during the coming year the membership would increase to 400. Mr. Lauer's financial report was equally encouraging, showing a ballance to the credit of the Exchange of $1500 after meeting all obligations. Both reports were unanimously adopted.

Owing to the increase in membership, and also the increasing rent of the present rooms in the Mechanic's Institute, it was decided to seek new quarters for the ensuing year. This matter will also he taken up by the incoming executive.

The election of officers resulted as follows : President. Thomas Ford; vice-president. J. Il. Arcand; secretarytreasurer, J. H. Laner; Board, for the Carpenters, T.  general contractor. A. F. Byers; plasterers. Jos. Fabien ; electrical association. Simoneau ; painters, W. T. Castle; plumbers. John A. Gordon ; structural iron and steel, D. W. Ross: roofing and fire proofing.

W.	A. Ramsay. Another member will later lie admitted, to represent the stone and marble trade.

An effort will also lie made during the coming year to turn the Builder's Exchange into a sort of labor bureau. with facilities for securing al]d distributing skilled mechanics, and also means for keeping their records for die benefit of members. It was decided that upon the application of any three members of the Exchange the secretary should be authorized to advertise in the city papers for skilled mechanics, the men to apply to the secretary at the Exchange offices, and lie distributed by him according to the applications received from the contract ors.

In addition to this a proposition was made for the introduction of a sort of Berthillon car system for the identification of mechanics. These cards to be turn shied to members of the Exchange and filled out with the names of their men, while there is a series of numbers corresponding with a key giving remarks as to the men

habits and abilities, the reasons for their dismissal. etc., each member of the Exchange to have a copy of the necessary code, and the records to be kept at the Exchange office as a reference library. this idea was ap proved by the meeting and will be taken up by the in-coining executive, with other revisions of the by—laws.

Secretary Laner also reported progress with regard to the efforts that are being made to organize a federation of the twenty—eight Building Exchanges throughout Canada with the object of securing a universal contract form. A number of the members present complained that with the present system adopted by architects of preparing contracts they had to engage a lawyer to

find out what it was all about, or take the risk of finding that they had contracted for a good deal more than they knew, with the probable result of losing money.

This matter was also referred to the incoming executive. with a recommendation for a conference with the architects.



The a minimal meeting of the Toronto Builders' Exchange was held in the board room on Monday, January 20. with an unusually large attendance and more than the customary manifestation of interest in the work. The balance sheet for 1907, as certified by the auditors, was most satisfactory, being the best that has been presented since the format ion of the organization. The directors' report was also read and discussed. It indicated that the Exchange is making steady advancement along modern lines. The LI lowing officers were elected for 1908 President. C. W. Batt first vice-president. Arthur Din-ii is ; second vice-president. den. Gander; treasurer, James Crang : secretary, J. L. Phillips; directors. Wni. Clark.

.1.	Ii. Tinunson, John Aldrige. Wmu. 8niallwoad. Ccii. Duthie ; auditors. Walter Davidson and ,Jas. .1. Browne.





<article title=" OBITUARY " author="Detweiler, S.">OBITUARY.

Recently there passed away in the Minneapolis Hospital Memo S. Detweiler. a well—known architect and a native of Ontario. Barn in Berlin in 1869, he received his architectural training at the Chicago Art Institute. After the usual office training he secured a practice in Columbus, Ohio, later moving to La Crosse Wis., and Austin, Minn.

Mr. Detweiler's product ions showed a fine conception of what is attractive in public building. and much of his more prominent work was of that class. lie was the author of the Carnegie library at Austin. Among other promiment buildings designed by Mr. Detweiler may be mentioned the court houses at Fairmont, Minn.. Elbow Lake. Minn., Vinton. Iowa. Deadwood. S.D., and Britton, S.D. his last work was upon the plans for the state capitol building at Pierre. S.D.

In Minneapolis he was associated for several years. with F. W. Kinney in time firm of Kinney & Detweiler. For the past three year he was with C. E. Bell, the firm style being Bell & Detweiler. which was dissolved only last July when failing health compelled Mr. Detweiler to retire.

<article title=" ANNUAL BANQUET OF EDMONTON BUILDERS " author="">

ANNUAL BANQUET OF EDMONTON BUILDERS.

The officers and members of the Master Builders' Exchange of Edmonton held their first annual banquet in that city on the evening of December 26 last. Upwards of 100 members and guests were present. President J. H. Miller presided and an interesting toast list, enlivened an evening, which, it is thought, will be only the first of many similar gatherings.

