<doctype type="text">

the structure, and the contracts of light and shade usually obtained by these may he either produced by modeling or by coro, or both

The basis of the structure is metal. which is concealed and protected in all important structural parts of the building, but can readily he announced in the openings. by grilles or delicate metal fenestration. Excellent opportunity and great latitude in design are possible therefore in the sub-division of the openings. either in east or wrought metal, such detail being an admirable contrast to the other type of ornament of the concrete. The concentration and elaboration of grilles at the top of openings has numerous prototypes in all styles of architecture. Because metal is capable of long, sinuous curves. it is by no means essential that minor detail should adopt such an initial scheme and becomes thereby too important and out of scale with the other proportions of the building. The inn in surface of a reinforced concrete  building is of concrete, a material which is homogeneous, has no joints and is actually a thin skin to the structure. but sufficiently thick to cover and disguise the joints of the structure, it is inferior to most stone in vivacity of surface texture and to both brick and stone in the sea given by constructive joints. It has, however, been more frequently used as a surface than any other material. arid when finished with stucco, as with the Egyptians and Greeks, it presented a surface which admitted of equally the most vigorous and the most delicate polychromy. Its surfaces were those of unblemished parchment, making an admirable background not only for color but for impasto ornament. When two surface coats of contrasting colors were laid, sgraffito or scratched detail was possible, the only objection to this type of work being the action of frost upon it. Concrete surfaces also permit the insertion of fragments of other material. marbles, metal or glass or tiles embedded in it in patterns Entire veneer of these. however, which entirely conceal the concrete, seem insufficiently supported unless they have their own independent system of apparent structure 

Another element of metal structure is that of the occurrence of stable projections. which are greatly in excess of those which can he safely supported by any other materials.

When such occur, as in hays. etc.. the supporting factors should be strongly announced and even exaggerated. for we have not vet adjusted our sense of security of masses supported upon thin forms.

Ornament in architecture accent s the component parts. either of the structure or (if time composition of the facade.

That which accents the component parts of the structure either accents the joints or indicates the interstices of structure.

The accenting of joints is usually performed by mouldings. or by concentrated spots, such as rosettes and capitals.

The indication of filling of interstices such as typmpana, spandrils. panels. etc.. any of which could he re—

moved without jeopardizing the structure. is usually by ornamental patterns.

The ornament which accents lines of composition is usually on vertical axes. and is of specially designed spots, such as keystones, cartouches, exaggerated corbels. etc. This latter type is used sparingly or is absent in the best architecture of all style, excepting when it is in the form of pinacles. canapies arid heraldic scutcheons, in which case it has an individual purpose in addition to that of mere accent of vertical axis.

The position of ornament in reinforced concrete is not different from that of any articulated structure, but there are larger interstices, that is. larger surfaces of non-supporting wall: therefore it is not inconsistent that these surfaces, if ornamented at all, should be more generally ornamented than in stone buildings. But there is no necessity or object in suggesting clasps, straps, bolt heads and other small details in the covering of the metal. Nor is there any objection in making the ornament thin and tenuous, because of that quality in the skeleton. A man with small bones need not have slits for eyes and mouth.

The general effect of reinforced concrete structure is that of lightness of delicacy. Its mouldings and ornaments should correspond in character. The chief problem is to prevent an effect that is trivial and that lacks stability. The only method by which slender structure and delicate detail can he made vigorous is by contrast of simple surfaces with massed detail. Tu this ease the simple surfaces are over the structural factors and the curtain walls and the massed detail is associated with the openings and possibly with the cornice. Wrought metal grilles and balconies, elaborate fenestration, polychromy and surface modeling (both focussed), all afford opportunities for the embellishment of a system of structure which is devoid of large piers. deep reveals and heavy shadows. All are in accord with such structure and it is unnecessary to search for more sensational factors of expression A reinforced building is very apt to express itself tolerably well if none of the architectural detail applied to it is in imitation of stone, brick or wood forms, if its metal ornament is wrought and its concrete ornament plastic or mosaic or painting. It presents but one new problem that of making a thin thing as attractive as one with mass As a matter of fact, solidity of mass enters largely into our feeling of permanency and stability. and it is probable that no large skeleton structure can over compete with one having liberal third dimensions. Its character is that of lightness. which has always been associated with impermanency. But that quality accepted. as it needs must be, much can be done to make it attractive without inventing combinations of forms which are uncalled for and which in themselves have no intrinsic value.

One of the constant criticisms of Roman architecture by instructors in architectural design is that the orders were used by the Romans merely as an ornament applied to the face of the construction. Partly engaged columns

