<doctype type="text">

ganized education supplied from outside the office. The weakness of the apprenticeship system is that some practitioners conscientiously train their pupils, while many do not. In some cases brilliant men are produced and in others students with capacity for development have every ambition blunted.

In Glasgow, that home of the "Modern in Art," they have secured thc services of a French architect to conduct a course in architectural design in the School of Art. The effect of the system on the ambitious and modern Scotchman will be interesting to follow. In all probability the infusion of reasonable discipline which the Ecole system will supply will result in individual work, which can hear the tests of criticism. In London several of the leading men are conducting ateliers on lines which are a modification of those followed in Paris.

The Royal Institute of British Architects has planned to establish teaching centres in various districts in Great Britain, under the advisory control of an educational committee. In America the American Institute is considering the advisability of directing in an official way a course of architectural education, and has in mind the founding of a post-graduate school of architecture in Washington.

One of the interesting features of a system which will represent all parts of the United States should be the differing character of the work produced in the extreme West, when compared with that turned out in New York. This plan may prove a step forward in the development of an architecture which suitably expresses the life and ideals of our friends to the south.

So much for systems and movements on foot in countries other than our own. I have said very little about traveling abroad, but believe that we should make a point to every few years seek inspiration among the monuments of a past which 'held to standards of beauty and truth more devotedly than we do nowadays.

<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION " author="">CANADIAN ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION.



In considering the subject of architectural education in Canada, one finds that of late years there has been a distinct advance made. In McGill University, under the able direction of Professor Nobbs, a comprehensive course is given, which, while making use of some of the principles in vogue in France, aims distinctly to foster in the students an appreciation of the fact that our architecture should have its roots in the English school, and yet frankly be expressive of Canadian life and climatic limitations.

In the Ecole Polytechnique, Professor Doumie has taken charge of the course in architecture. Here we may expect an interesting development, as Mr. Doumic is a graduate of the Ecole des Beaux Arts. There certainly is an opportunity in the Province of Quebec for architectural expression, which will recall the old ties with France. At the Ecole Polytechnique a night class in architecture fulfills a long felt want. The draughts-man unable to take a college course has in Montreal another chance to better himself by belonging to the Sketch

Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, which 'has a course in design. as well as other educational features. In Toronto, I believe, your Association conducts classes in the mathematical and practical phases of education. In other large cities there may be educational advantages, but the fact remains that there is need in Canada of a course in design which will reach the draughtsmen in the smaller centres of the country.

<article title=" SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVED ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION IN CANADA " author="">SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVED ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION IN CANADA.

It seems to me that the newly formed Institute of Architects of Canada has in this problem one of its great opportunities. As a possible solution, a course in design could be conducted on the same general working lines, which the Beaux Arts Society has adopted in the United States. Of necessity, one course should be elementary. There are in most centres of population architects who could form ateliers. The best drawings of each competition should be sent to the different towns and exhibited with written criticisms attached. Scholarships should be inaugurated and diplomas given to students obtaining a certain number of mentions. Such a course is needed in Canada, and it should be our aim to develop our architecture along lines which recognize our country and its traditions and associations. We may well, in our designing, seek to assimilate that which is good and suitable in Great Britain, and at the same time leave ourselves open to the many excellent influences which emanate from France and other countries. In the Province of Quebec, the best old work suggests a satisfactory solution of the climatic problems and a starting point which should supply us with inspiration. In regard to the other phases of education, it is questionable if these should be attended to by correspondence. May we not hope that technical schools will be provided to educate not only draughtsmen but the workingmen of the country.

<article title=" GOOD WORK OF P. Q. A. A." author="Maxwell, W. S.">GOOD WORK OF P. Q. A. A.



Before concluding, you may be interested to hear of the work done in the Sketch Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. During the fall and winter months the club holds competitions in design, which are divided into two classes. The conduct of these competitions is in the hands of three practising architects, who draw up six programs for each class, one month being allotted to each competition. In Class B, the problems are comparatively simple and often include the use of an order or of arcades, etc. In Class A, the programs are more elaborate, the one which is being worked on this month being a small art museum in a park. In Class A an esquisse is made during the evening on which the programs are given out. This is the third year of these competitions, and the very noticeable improvement in the quality of the work leads us to believe that our labors have not been fruitless. During one season some students made it a point to study carefully books on architecture and give a review of the contents to the members. This is a delightful feature, which makes for a higher level of culture. Talks by contrac

