<doctype type="plate;text">

























































<article title=" A Beautiful Toronto Landmark " author="">

A Beautiful Toronto Landmark.

The old Cawthra homestead, familiarly known to Torontonians for many years as the Molson's 's Bank building, at the northeast corner of King and Bay streets, has been admired time and 'again, probably by every architect in the city, and by everyone who enjoys the sight of a fine building. Its present alterations to suit the purposes of the Sterling Bank have been watched anxiously for fear that its splendid appearance might be spoiled. Apparently only one important change is being made, the moving of the main entrance from Bay to King streets. This will add somewhat to the dignity of the building, but involves one slight alteration which detracts from its appearance. The pediment above the porch overlaps the pilasters on either side a trifle, whereas in its former position, as shown in the illustration, it fitted snugly between them. The long upright lines of the pilasters and the proportions of the pediment are somewhat detracted from by this. Aside from this it is a matter for congratulation that the building, one of the most exquisite examples of Corinthian classic to be found, is to retain its exterior appearance unaltered. The illustration shows the building in its early days as the residence of Mr. Win. Cawthra, who erected it in 1852. Its transformation into a banking house about 1884 involved the disappearance of the four chimneys appearing in the illustration. The building is now owned by the Canada Life Assurance Company, and will be rented to the Sterling Bank.





At the annual meeting of the Regina Architectural Association the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: President, F. Chapman Clemesha; vice-president, E. M. Storey; secretary-treasurer, W. B. Van Egmond; committee, W. W. Hilton, Geo. E. Hutchinson, Walter J. Coltman

<article title=" Architectural Composition " author="">Architectural Composition.

A useful book for architects, which will be generally welcomed also, is entitled "Architectural Composition," by John Beverley Robinson, Member of the American Institute of Architects. The publishers are D. Van Nostrand Company, New York, The book is explained as ''attempt to order 'and phrase ideas which hitherto have been only felt by the instinctive taste of designers. Some time ago Mr. Robinson published in the "Architectural Record" a series of articles upon the principles of architectural composition, which were afterward reprinted in book form. His motive was a conviction that it was possible to formulate the approved practice of architects in designing the exterior of buildings. The book was favorably received, and the present work developed the theories laid down in the former book, in a more coherent and logical form. The book is handsomely printed and is illustrated with a great number of cuts and half-tons, which add materially to its usefulness. It will prove invaluable to the student of architecture and attractive also to the casual reader.







<article title=" Toronto Architects' Meeting " author="">Toronto Architects' Meeting.

The Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects at their annual meeting selected the following officers Chairman, Geo. W. Gouinlock; secretary, H. Sparling; treasurer, P. J. Wickson; auditor, H. B. Gordon. The meeting was one of the most successful held in the past two years. The application to the Legislature for an amendment to the present Act governing that body was discussed, and it was claimed that the aim was the improvement of architecture in the province. What the association wants is to have the examinations for architects governed in some way by the Legislature or the University.

