<doctype type="text">

again on one or more buildings instead of attacking this most important item and cutting salient costs. By working out a standard in place of cutting the number and removing the forms in the minimum time, the contractor will put money in his pocket and most surely never have cause for regret. There are two types of forms, known as "core-box" arid ''panel'' construction. In either ease the forms must be so constructed that changes in depth or width of beams can be made without cutting the form to pieces. Furthermore, in the detailing it is best to keep in mind the wrecking more than tire erection, as economy in forms depends greatly of how many times a. form can be used with the least repairing. Do away with hammer, saw and nails as much as possible in the erection and have recourse to bolts, wire or band iron.

The following details of forms are types as designed and used by the writer in different parts of the continent and they will give the reader and student some idea of feasible and practical forms. The writer cuts out 2 inch lumber as much as possible, except in beam arid girder bottoms. In this way money is not only saved in the first cost of lumber but tire forms no more easily handed and hoisted. Experience also teaches that such forms show up much better after an equal amount of hard image. One inch by six inch T. and 0-. or bevelled edge pine or spruce makes ideal form lumber Boards wider than six inch have a tendency to warp. Core-boxes are erected economically and rapidly when beams are nearly uniform in width and the building is of snare magnitude The sides must 'have a chamber of three-quarter inch in twelve inches, In the panel construction any slight deviation in line can be taken up at the junction of floor amid beam panel. Immediately after construct inn, forms should be greased with some mixture mire of soft soap and coal oil.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



standard. There is too much at stake. Sand should be clean, sharp and graded. According 1.0 reports. and the writer's experience a very small percentage of clay is not detrimental. but a very fine sand is. A convenient test to determine the cleanliness is to throw a handful of the sand into a tumbler of wafer; if the water remains muddy and cloudy for some time the sand should he rejected.

There has been some controversy as to which is better, stone or gravel concrete Among the arguments brought forth, it has been said that the surfaces of gravel were ''not susceptible of the same affinity to tire cement '' as broken stone. Yet it is a fact that we can obtain dense concrete more easily with gravel. The reason for this lies in the fact that the angular pieces of broken stone sometimes arch and form a void underneath which no amount of tamping earl break. Again, we know that the glossy surfaces found on some broken stone are no more ''susceptible of the same affinity to the cement'' than gravel. The recent fierce fire at Dayton. Ohio. also proved some of the sterling quality of gravel concrete as a fireproofing aggregate. Machine mixed concrete is to he preferred ; in tests with which the writer is familiar, ma-chine mixed concrete showed results as high as 25 per cent. above hand mixed.

All steel should be of proper length and the different diameters and lengths should be assorted and stacked separately immediately after delivery at the job. If possible assemble the steel on the ground and place as a unit.

<article title=" MIXING AND PLACING CONCRETE " author="">MIXING AND PLACING CONCRETE.

Feed the mixer by gravity. This can be done in sinking the mixer or by erecting stone and sand bins high enough above the mouth of the mixer. These bins must be fed by a boom derrick or an elevator. In building construction the first is generally the more practical. A measuring hopper should be fixed at the month of the mixer with a capacity to hold the proportioned aggregates for one hatch. The water ought to he fed from a barrel through a pipe some distance into the mixer; that part of the pipe in tire mixer should be drilled with three-eighths inch holes in order to distribute the water evenly. The concrete is best raised by an automatic hopper of the Ransome type. from which it dumps into a receiving hopper at the desired height.

Spraying the forms immediately before concreting insures good surfaces. The columns should be cast up to tire soffit of the beams the day before casting the latter and the slab. By placing a small batch of grout in tire bottom of the column first you can avoid stone pockets. Long spades or rammers must be used in tamping the concrete. Tire best policy in casting beams and slabs is to deposit the first batch of concrete at the column and then working steadily away from this point. In this manner you keep pushing some of the finer aggregate always ahead of von. This finer aggregate must be kept moving continually for the moment it sets, it will not bond with the rest of the concrete. To avoid pin holes on concrete surfaces, hammer the outside of the forms lightly with mallets while casting.

It is the 'contractor's duty to use good judgment in the selection of his working plant. On one job, for instance. it will he more economical to use a platform hoist and raise the concrete in harrows, using the same hoist for tire other material between concreting. On the majority of work, however, it will be found advantageous to raise time concrete inn a special bucket running in a frame and hoisting the other material on a platform or a single ''square'' derrick, swinging on hinges which are fastened



(concluded on page 24)

There is only one correct method of wrecking forms, and that is to wreck the columns first; in this way any defect in the column can lie discovered and remedied before removing the supports. The core-boxes pull easily by jarring and the panels by springing.

<article title=" AGGREGATES AND PROPORTIONS " author="">AGGREGATES AND PROPORTIONS.

The concrete aggregates and proportioning are generally determined for the contractor. but lie must have some knowledge of the material lie is going to handle cement broken stone or gravel, sand. Cement should be stored on the job for' at least several days to allow a test for fineness. setting, boiling arid tensile strength. The finest ground cement is the best. Uniformity of color is also desired for aesthetic reasons. In 1906 when the writer had continual tests made of Canadian cement which he was using, the head of one of the cement concerns became rather indignant over ''the waste of time'' by not accepting his mill tests. No engineer or contract()r should be satisfied with mill tests, especially when the requirements read that cement must be of a certain

