<doctype type="text">

was rented in advance at a figure which yields eight per cent. on thc investment - Sir John Langham is now letting a contract for another four-story warehouse to cost $40,000, and which it is understood has been leased by the Canadian Fairbanks Company. Sir John will erect a third building of the same class during the summer.

The City Council has received a definite offer of a Carnegie library and has already provided for its permanent maintenance by levying a special rate of half a mill on the total assessment of the city. it is 'likely the library will be built this summer

Altogether Calgary will be a busy city for builders and mechanics this year. as it has been for the last four

second tunnel connecting their stables with the factory facing on James street, the City Engineer states that the material for this extension is on hand, with the exception of the valves and hydrants, which would have to be purchased at a cost of $900. This work, he says would protect to a certain extent the City Hall and prove a very great protection to all the large buildings in the vicinity particularly the Salvation Army headquarters, as well as the main building and factories of the T. Eaton Company, employing, I am informed, from 2.500 to 3,000 people. The estimated cost of this work would be

$7,000.



<article title=" Toronto Station Hearing Next Month " author="">

Toronto Station Hearing Next Month.

The Dominion Railway Commission will hold a sitting in Toronto early in May to consider the viaduct and Un-









































































of five, during which period its population has been quadrupled, being now well over 22,000.



<article title=" Extending Toronto's High Pressure " author="">

Extending Toronto's High Pressure.

In reporting to the Toronto Board of Works on the plan submitted by Aid. McBride for an extension of the high pressure fire service from Queen street north to Albert street, on Teraulay street. and east along Albert street to a point west of the T. Eaton Company's tunnel crossing Albert street, together with a branch extending south a short distance on James street and north to a

ion Station question. The railway companies have applied to the board for a further extension of time to complete the station. According to the present order the station must he completed before June 1 next, but as this is now impossible an extension of time will be granted. The board is anxious to have some settlement between the city and railways reached this spring, so that a start may be made on the station this summer. Letters have been sent to all the parties concerned urging them to submit definitely their plans and stipulations. The board will then be in a position to issue a final order for the work to proceed without further delay.

