<doctype type="text">



<article title=" Practical Pointers on Cement Construction " author="">Practical Pointers on Cement Construction.

In the erection of concrete structures, especially in estimating on such edifices, it is very important that the builder or contractor should possess a practical knowledge of the basic formulae of principles that underlie this class of work. Although the use of concrete, for a wide range of purposes has of late made rapid progress. the number of those who have undertaken it, some on quite a considerable scale, with no more than rudimentary knowledge of its character is comparatively large, and it is for their benefit that we propose to present, omitting all complicated formulae and tables, some fundamental facts that they can use to good account and tests that can be easily conducted, in short time, with out scientific knowledge and with the simplest apparatus.

In the appearance, stability 'and success of the work the quality of the cement is the first consideration, and although in most cases the character, quantity and quality of the materials is all stipulated in the architects specifications, even these details are in many instances left to the contractor's intelligence and integrity, and a practical knowledge of their properties and the proportions in which they should be rightly used, with thc aid of a few simple tests will be his best Insurance against, failure.

The ''pat'' test is probably at once the easiest and furnishes the most reliable and d easily comprehended results. For this is required a fair average sample of the cement to be tested, a few pieces of common window glass, 4 by 4 inches a piece of plate glass, 12 by 8 inches and half an inch thick, pair of rubber gloves, a pair of scales a small trowel and some water.

In sampling the cement., take from each package an equal quantity and thoroughly mix it together Place a portion of the dry cement on the plate glass iii the form of a mound, and with the small trowel make a depression in the centre Weigh or measure a quantity of water, which has been found by trial to give the proper consistency and pour it into the depression, allowing it to soak into the cement and then, with the trowel, turn the material on the edges into the water. As soon as the water is absorbed, the paste is kneaded for 1 1-2 minutes with the hand protected with the rubber glove.

Make .a portion of the plastic mass into a ball and press it on to one of the pieces of glass so as to form a circular pat, about 3 inches in diameter and half an inch thick at the centre, tapering to a thin edge. For twenty-four hours, to prevent the parts from drying too quickly, they must be kept under a cloth, moistened and suspended above the pats, with the ends immersed in water, to keep it wet. While mixing, the temperature of the air and of the water for mixing and storage should be kept as nearly as possible at 21 degrees C. (70 degrees F.). At the expiration of 24 hours, one pat should be placed in water and one in air of ordinary temperature (60 degrees to 70 degrees F.) both being kept under these influences for 28 days and observed

from time to time, a third being placed in a loosely closed vessel over boiling water, where the steam can reach it, and kept there, the water boiling for five hours Expansion cracks, which denote an unsound cement an( usually appear after the cement has set and within the stipulated period of 28 days, are easily distinguishable from shrinkage cracks, which ordinarily appear during setting. Where plainly evident expansion or radial cracks appear in the cement, or any of the parts show a tendency to curl or crumble, it should be subjected P rigorous test in a properly equipped laboratory before acceptance.

the pat exposed to the air test should not discolor.

The test. of fineness is one of the indications of quality. Two ounces of dry Portland or natural cement free from lumps, sifted through a sieve about 6 to

inches in diameter, of 100 meshes' to the linear inch should not leave more than half an ounce on the sieve Where it is desired to make a choice between two cements otherwise very much alike, use a 200 mesh sieve after thc 100 mesh size, and select the cement having least residue.

The setting test is one easily carried out and in some operations may be quite important For some work, a cement that sets too quickly is often a source of trouble. while a cement that consumes an unnecessarily long time in setting often delays thc removal of the forms and the loading of the structure in the continuance of the work

A simple test for the setting properties of cement was formerly pressure of the thumb; the work cannot be regarded as safely set until it will support such a pressure without indentation.

The Vicat needle is used extensively in testing the setting qualities of cement and succeeded the Gillmore needle used for United States government tests. The  Gilmore needles consisted of two wires one one-twelfth of 'an inch, the other one-twenty-fourth of an inch in diameter. The initial set of ''neat'' cement is determine(I by the time required for the pat to support, without indentation, the larger needle, loaded to a quarter of a pound. The "final" set is the time in which the pat will support the smaller needle, loaded to a pound, without visible indentation.

The test of cement as to quality, of weight, is no longer regarded as qualitative and has been abandoned for other and more decisive tests of a scientific character, involving the use of expensive apparatus.—Shoppell's.





<article title=" Plaster Casts Made Cleanable " author="">Plaster Casts Made Cleanable.

Plaster casts may be prepared so that they can be washed off when dirty by allowing them to remain for 10 to 12 hours in a bath of raw linseed oil, heated to 70 to 90 degrees. They must then be dried. Plaster casts may be hardened by immersing them for half an hour in a solution of 1 part, by weight, of alum, free from iron, and 6 parts of water. The objects when removed acquire a fine coating of alum crystals, which can be removed with a damp cloth.

