<doctype type="text">



THE time has again come when the conditions preliminary to another building year call for consideration and, this year, for analysis. At the outset, it may be said, that the outlook. so far as architects are concerned. seems decidedly favorable. Speculators in stocks on margin have suffered during the list three months through a sudden loss in confidence There has been a general shrinkage in trade that still manifests it-self iii cancelled orders, but this movement, although it has affected the community in general through an increase in the rates of interest, has not been accompanied by any fundamental disturbance of mercantile or industrial conditions and does not seem likely to have such a result. The future of this country is too well assured and the farmers are too large and influential a class to permit of it receiving a serious setback. When the present uneasiness wears off there will be a notable increase in building operations in all parts of Canada. It is not expected that there can he a great rush of private building this season. That there is going to be the usual amount of higher class residence construction is already assured and architects have on the average as much of this class of work on hand as is usual at. this season of year. At the same time there are many large buildings which were not completed last year. and which will he pushed along as soon as weather permits in the spring. These represent a, considerable outlay of capital. The outlook for speculative building is. of course, not good. There will be a shrinkage in the inpouring of people to the cities for sonic time to come that will entail a consequently lessened demand for cheaper dwelling houses. On the other hand. the expenditure on civic undertakings should. and probably will, aggregate more during the corning season than usual. This will be necessary in view Of the number of unemployed, who will find much leisure time on their hands should they have to depend solely on the building undertaken by private enterprise. This help, moreover, is largely of a nature fitted only for the roughest of employment. such as sewers, sidewalks and pavements. Such projects municipalities undertake. and the municipalities most see to it that this summer they are begun as early and in as large volume as possible.





A

 the first congress of Canadian architects. held T in Montreal iii August last, when the project of





an act for incorporation of the Institute of Architects of Canada come up for adoption, two alternative schemes were discussed. The first contained a clause limiting the use of the word ''Architect'' to the members of the Institute, the second omitting this clause. The delegates present at the conference were practically unanimous in a desire to adopt project No. 1, which provided for a closed corporation.'' Recently the bill has been receiving a preliminary ' ' trimming' ' from the Private Bills Committee at Ottawa preparatory to its first reading and has been. we understand. denuded of everything that savored of a closed corporation. In short-, project No. 2.

which was rejected last August is practically to be the legal basis for the Institute of Architects of Canada. There is now little doubt that the act so modified will he considered by the Government without serious object-ion, and that the threatened division of the forces of the profession in reference to the objectionable clauses of the act as first proposed will happily not materialize.



AT no previous time in our history has the public welfare received so much attention at the hands of newspaper and magazine Writers. public lecturers and sanitariums generally as during the past year or two. In Toronto above the clamor for ''cheap power,'' is heard the cry for pure water, with its attendant, a more satisfactory sewage system. Already, through the action of the smaller units of county, township and town, acting through broads of health and commissions of various kinds, the death rate of the Dominion has, during the past century, been reduced to an extent scarcely conceivable. Much of this has doubtless been due to the medical fraternity and to scientists who have discovered the causes of a number of preventable diseases, such as smallpox, typhoid and, to a certain extent also, consumption, and be working on the formula that ''an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure'' have greatly lessened the mortality from these diseases formerly so dreaded.

But science has been delayed greatly by the slowness of municipalities to undertake costly improvements for reasons which 'they can only imperfectly understand. It costs to filter sewage and water, to conduct dairies so that all milk will be absolutely free from disease germs of any kind, to drain swamps and in other ways destroy mosquito pests, to catch and kill plague-bearing rats, to maintain hospitals for contagious disease, to conduct quarantine at the various ports of entry and to exert in other ways the government control which is necessary to compel sanitary precautions by the ignorant arid careless and protect tire healthy against the diseased. if the detailed cost of this were fully set forth it is possible that many citizens would protest against it as being an expenditure of money bringing no adequate return.

Efforts toward the formation of a National Committee of Health as a part of one of the departments at Washington is beginning to take form and it is estimated that tire properly directed efforts of such a commission, adequately hacked by legal powers, may, within a few years, reduce the death rate of that, country by 50 per cent. The movement is sure to l)e copied in Canada, but until a large majority of 'our citizens are educated to an appreciation of the benefits of sanitation, the efforts of the authorities will 'be greatly impeded and can be productive of limit imperfect results. Education in sanitation is therefore even more necessary at tire present time than direct preventive measures and the introduction into our public schools of instruct ion on such topics is becoming equally as desirable as the teaching of drawing or nature one complementary of the study. The is certainly complementary of the other.

