<doctype type="text">
In diametrical opposition to Mr. Langton's view of higher education was that of President Falconer. "In the University." said that gentleman, "we do not intend to turn out a man simply as a tradesman. We do not merely intend to turn mint a man who can earn his living. as a doctor, but in turning out a medical man our
idea is that he in an educated medical man who understands the meaning of his profession and conies out with a scientific spirit Besides the technical side of a profession there in the human side, awl you cannot
understand your own profession unless you have a conception of the breadth of humanity and of human life."
President Falconer made 1150 reference in his remarks to compulsory education. They have long passed that stage at Toronto University. in some subjects only of the general course, and in almost none of those in lbs. honor eonrhe%. is ercn the attendance of the student enforced. Strange paradox as it may seem, the greater the freedom accorded a of students, enrolled in a fatuity where the course of study is attractive. the higher becomes the educational ideal of that faculty.


IT apparently iw not the intention of those representatives of Canadian builders' exchanges who met in convention in Toronto on Labor Day last to allow the project of founding a national organization of builders to die fruitless. Under date of September 17. circular letters. enclosing copies of the official minutes of the Labor Day meeting, were addressed to every executive officer of every exchange in Canada. Accompanying these went requests to elect a delegate for the executive council. The exchanges actually represented at Toronto on September 1 were Winnipeg. London, flamilton, Toronto and Montreal. and the delegates present, according to the provisional constitution, named one representative executive officer on the council for each exchange prewent, one vice-president for each of the province's represented Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec.
In a recent communication from the secretary. Mr.
J. H. Lamer, we are informed that a lack of cnthusiasm has thus for marked the attitude which the various exrhange's have adopted toward this project. One can well conceive one or two rea.ems for this. In the first place lethargy prevails in the building trade in all part's of the country and, strange as it may seem, it is at just such a time when lei%flre might lie found for considering a project of this nature, that the tendency to ignore it becomes most pronounced. But apart front this fact it must be admitted that time project was conceived hi too much secrecy and brought forth with the knowledge of comparatively few of the members of our builders' ex changes. A project of 'such importance deserved a natal day of much greater brilliancy than that actually accorded it. The project is a vast one, and a "Canadian
National Association of Builder's" should be a powerful factor in the rapidly increasing building activity of this country. It cannot be too strongly urged upon the various exchanges to make a strong amid united effort to nourish the infant organization, win demise would put a serious cheek upon future endeavors to make our various builders' exchanges a harmonious whole.


IT is proposed in England to establish a "Technical Bureau." for the benefit of architect; and builders.
where information can he obtained on such matters as building materials. appliances, new methods of construction, etc., and an advisory committee ha. been appointed to consider the project.
Apart from the examination of individual manufacturers' goods. reports will he kept dealing with materials as a class, in which comparisons (denoting strength.
durability. and applicability) will be made with different material,, designed to serve the same purpose.
The reassmlts. of these' investigations and testings will comistitute the Timirean reports, to be filed at the office, copies or respilite extracts being supplied on application to subscribers only.
Experts will be retained to advise on constructional and technical subjects and on legal and such other mat-ten as affect architectural practice. Answers tel inquiries sill he free; but where much correspondence stud research are involved a subscriber would have time benefit of certain arrangements to lIe made with the legal and technical expert'..
The main purpose would be to centralize information regarding stone. brick, tiles, slates, lime, cement, etc., in the various localities. throughout the country, and to acquire a standard collection of samples. Subscribers on application tea be nifonned of the accessibility of the various materials in any required locality. In the ease of stone, its nature and color, for what particular building use's it is most adaptable, together with its different quarries and the approximate cost on nil or site. The nature. color, and description of the brick's, tiles, slates, etc.. obtainable in each locality, with their approximate cost on rail or site. Ordnance and railway maps will be u.el for defining localities. and will be at the disposal elf subscribers for reference. A list of buildings in which the materials in question have been used will be provided. Copies of the building by-laws in force in each teawn and locality will be kept in the library.
Subscribers will be provided gratis with a refe'rence book, containing directions for using the Bureau to the bent advantage. It will be in the form of a diary for architects, with useful information and data prepared specially for the Bureau. It is added that information will be supplied thremrmgh the post, and special regard will be paid to the convenience of those architects making inquiries by letter. The Bureau, we are informed. has already over 500 subscribers amongst architects all over the country.
The usefulness of such a Bureau requires no demonstration. particularly in view of the fact that so many new materials and building devices are continually seeking a market and require to have their merit's attested by an authority less biased than is the general run of manufacturer's or inventor's announcements.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

