<doctype type="text">

tors, illustrated on the blackboard and by samples, were instructive and of practical value. Visits to buildings in course of erection 'have been made On Saturday afternoons, while other features of interest and benefit have been trips to the old towns of the province, sketching trips, classes ill water color. etc.

<article title=" ART MUSEUMS MUCH NEEDED IN CANADA " author="">ART MUSEUMS MUCH NEEDED IN CANADA.

The need of art museums, such 'as those of South Kensington and the Metropolitan in New York, is badly felt. We have no collections of merit which illustrate the artistic crafts of the past. Small collections of architectural casts decorate the draughting rooms anti staircase halls of some colleges; it is more than this that we need. The Government of Canada should become Interested in this matter and contribute liberally to the founding (If museums in Toronto, Winnipeg and Montreal. The educative effects on the public, not to mention tile architect and craftsman, would well repay any outlay. A nation is judged, not only by thc tons of steel rails produced, but by the level of cultivation which the buildings and art of tile country express. Do we judge the Greeks solely by their literature? Let our legislators give the matter serious thought and the wisdom of assisting this cause will be apparent.

The place France gained as a nation which furnished the world with artistic manufactures, was the result of encouragement and assistance from the Government.

So much for the systems of an educational nature. Many others exist that may in the future modify our present opinions. Let us cultivate broad-mindedness and progress will be the immediate result. The fact that the Government of Canada has held a competition for an important group of buildings indicates that we are accomplishing something in educating those who have but an indirect interest in the profession. Let us continue advocating this principle of competitions for public buildings. If representative architecture is to be produced, political patronage must be abolished, and every encouragement given to tile profession at large.

In conclusion I would say that there will always exist artistic souls who cannot bear tile limitations of school training. They will continue as in the past to lead us from the conventional and tile commonplace and enrich us with the creations of their genius. They may even show us that we have wandered from tile eternal truths and, like Brunelleschi, lead us into paths 'hitherto untrodden.





<article title=" THE COMMON RAFTER AND THE SQUARE " author="">THE COMMON RAFTER AND THE SQUARE.

In the "Woodworker's Review" the following questions are answered by A. H. Woods:

First.—How to obtain, by the square, the lengths for a valley rafter for a dormer. One valley, what we call the blind valley and the other what we call the short valley?

Second.—If the common rafter in the centre of an octagon bay is cut on a three-eighths pitch, what will give the side cut of the jack rafter against the side of the building, also what will give the cut against the hip?

''The first question will be more clearly understood by using a diagram, as shown at Fig. 1. First lay off two parallel lines, letting one represent the plate and the other the centre line under the ridge. Thus the run of the common rafter governs the width apart these lines should be. Now lay off the run of the long valley, as from A to B, which should (provided the dormer roof is of the same pitch as that of the main part) rest at an angle of 45 degrees front the plate. B C represents the rise of the main roof, and C A will represent the long valley. The part of which, from C F represents what is







































called the "blind valley," because it is concealed in the main roof. Now, let D A represent the width of the dormer and lay off P E, which will represent the short valley. Continue this line, as from E to F, which will represent the rise of the valley at this point. Transfer this measurement to F' and P F' will represent the short valley. The seat and plumb cuts can be had from this diagram.

''As to the second question. The proportions to take

















on the square for the side cut of the octagon jack to fit against the side of the house. See Fig. '2. Take A B on the tongue and the length of the rafter for a run equal to A C on the blade and the latter will give the cut. The same rule holds good in the ease of the side cut (If the jack to fit against the hip, not only for the octagon but any other angle. In this, tile reader will observe that we have used the same letters, but of the lower case, to represent the same parts. Otherwise, the procedure is the same. Working to a one foot scale for the latter example, it is 5 on the tongue and 15 on the blade. The latter giving the cut."

