<doctype type="text">

<article title=" The Design and Construction of Buildings " author="Brown, W. M.">The Design and Construction of Buildings.

By W. M. BROWN, C.E.



There are some buildings which attract attention more than others. This will depend, of course upon the bent. of the mind of the observer, and the characteristic features of the style of architecture that present themselves to view. But in general it will be found that either design or the construction of the building, or it may be the harmonious combination of both these elements are the chief point's of attraction in exciting admiration for any architectural structure, it may be noted here that design is the primary element in the planning and erection of all kinds of buildings and that it is either simple or complex according to the requirements for which the special structure is being erected, and in harmony with the style of architecture adopted. The first point then to consider in design is the very important one, viz., can the elaborate and ornamental details of the several parts of the style adopted be consistently and thoroughly carried out and at the same time in no way impair the method of construction as regards strength and durability The consideration of this point should engage the attention of the architect at the initial stage of his deliberations in the designing of a building For it is essential that the fundamental elements of strength and durability must take the precedence and be maintained, whether or not the ornamental details be carried out in their entirety. No building however grand or beautiful it may appear to the artistic eye, can give unalloyed pleasure to the mind of the architect when he has ascertained that there is a law or defect in the foundation or in some important part of the structural arrangements so in the general body of architecture there should be the soundness of material that gives it a degree of permanence as well as that elegance of design which should be manifest in the exterior and interior details, and which is as the soul that gives animation to the complete structure But if in the construction there be any arrangement that seriously affects the strength and durability of the building, then all the graceful features embodied therein may soon become a disastrous ruin.

This brings us to the first principle to be observed in the consideration of design, viz., that whatever prevents or impairs the strength and durability of a structure, however necessary it may seem to be to its elegant appearance, must be discarded and give place to what possesses the element of permanence. But we have stated that design is either simple or complex in character. What we mean 'by the former term is, that the arrangements of all the details are earned through in a regular form and thoroughly consistent with the style of architecture whereas the latter is more elaborate in form and possibly may introduce other details that are not necessarily in harmony with the style adopted. Whatever may detract from the beauty of an edifice should be avoided, if possible even although it be at the

sacrifice of some of the details that may have to be omitted, but which would not materially affect either the design or construction of the building And again, proportion in design must be carefully and faithfully attended to in every minute detail, in order to produce the acme of accomplishment

For this reason, there are several very important points to be considered, such as the style of architecture that is most suitable for the building about to be erected the dimensions of the walls, and the internal arrangements all of which call for the ingenuity of the architect, in producing a plan that will prove elegant and consistent in design and advantageous for the necessary requirements Design is the expression of beauty, harmony and grace in any work of art, and whatever of this character is introduced in the execution of a building may have a refined influence upon the mind, and yet not detract from any utilitarian object that may be desired. Although the architect holds the important position of carrying through every detail under his supervision, yet he is dependent in no small degree upon the services of the sculptor and painter for their advice and co-operation in the accomplishment of high class and great work, From the sculptor he may receive suggestions that would 'be valuable in the introduction of gracefully-sculpturer figures, or the carving of details gracefully-sculptured figures, or the carving of details gards the harmony of colors in the decorations. each being a master in his own sphere, can give the benefit of his experience, while it is from their harmonious collaboration and united efforts that au edifice may be erected which will be consistent in design ·and at the same time will exercise an ennobling and refining influence upon the mind, and be a triumph of architectural achievement.

Again, although that design necessarily embraces the element of construction in its development and accomplishment yet construction may be considered as the 'body of the structure upon which is wrought out all the graceful arid beautiful details of artistic design. But in the consideration of the construction of a building the first essential elements should be those of strength and durability, as well as the adaptability of the materials to the varied requirements, and thereafter the ornamentation that may be legitimately adopted in carrying out the style.

The construction of a building is in a large measure dependent upon the purpose for which it is being erected, and these are so varied that one ease may differ from another in several respects, although it may be of the same class. We see this exemplified in thc case of ecclesiastical buildings. Several religious bodies or sects have styles and particular points which they recognize as

absolutely essential in the erection of their churches or chapels. The architect, therefore, must recognize these customs in the framing of his plans and general designs But in the construction there are certain principles which must necessarily be carried out if a building of

