<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" CANADIAN HANDICRAFTS " author="">

CANADIAN HANDICRAFTS.

"In the past three years 'almost $14,000 has been paid 'to workers in home industries through the Canadian Handicrafts Guild." This significant statement was made by the president, Miss Phillips, at the third annual meeting of the Guild, held on January 28 at "Our Handicrafts Shop," Montreal. Mrs. W. D. Lighthall, the recording secretary, gave an excellent report of the work of 1907.

There has been a gratifying extension of the movement and exhibits of Canadian handicrafts, home spun hangings, dress goods, rugs, etc., werc sent to exhibitions at Melbourne, Australia, and at Dublin a room was set apart in the Canadian Pavilion for the work of the Guild. Other exhibitions were held in the Art Gallery, Montreal, Toronto, Boston, Sherbrooke, North Hatley, Metis, Banff, Ottawa and Lachute, with excellent results. Miss Phillips gave an interesting resume of the work of the Guild, its aim and object, practical methods and difficuties. The aim is distinctly not commercial gain for the Guild. Success is taken to mean increased sales for the workers, independence, comfort and content of the individual, and the consequent well-being of the community and country at large.

In olden times a "Guild" meant people banded together to promote some special craft. The Handicrafts Guild is composed of men and women desirous of preserving and promoting the 'handicrafts of Canada without

financial profit 'to themselves—enriching the lives of the workers with added interest and the joy of creative ability. The work, which must be kept up to a certain standard, 'is bought outright at the workers' valuation, subject to a knowledge of market values, commission be ing charged for selling, while only 'a small percentage is added to the price paid, for running expenses.

Sir Alexander Lacoste gave an address in which he spoke of the patriotism of the work accomplished by the Guild. While there had been in the past century a marvellous improvement in machinery and resulting wealth and comfort, yet the development of manufactures 'had not 'been an unmixed blessing. The Guild, apart from the - financial benefit to the homeworkers, is a patriotic factor in preserving the home life of the country.

Following is the committee elected for the ensuing year: Hon. President, Lord Strathcona; hon. vice-president, Sir Melbourn Tait; Miss Phillips, Miss Peck, Mrs. Dinham Molson, Mrs. Lightball, Lady Kingston, Lady Tait, Mrs. John Savage, Mrs. Chaffee, Mrs. Armstrong, Mrs. Botford, Miss Robertson, Judge Sicotte, Dr. J. C. Cameron, Messrs. W. S. Maxwell, R. Forget, Hibert, Dunford, Lightball and Phillips.





<article title=" HAVE BUILDERS' EXCHANGE FOR OTTAWA " author="">HAVE BUILDERS' EXCHANGE FOR OTTAWA.

The formation of a Builders' Exchange for Ottawa has been decided upon, and the details of the organization scheme are at present under discussion.







A Word to Architects

and Builders

T

 H E problem of LIGHT iS very important in planning a building in the business section of Cities and Towns.

We have solved the problem with our





LUXFLR PRISMS



For Sidewalk Areas and Windows





Write for Circular

and Prices.

LUXFER PRISM CO., Limited

100 King Street West,

TORONTO ONT.

