<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL MONACO " author="Dick, D. B.">

ARCHITECTURAL MONACO

By D. B. Dick.













































Nestling at the foot of the towering 'Tet-de-chien lies the Principality of Monaco, with its picturesque rock jutting out into the sea and crowned with the old town and its castle palace. The new town, La Condamine, lies on the main shore along the harbor, of which the rock forms one side. Beautifully situated across the harbor and climbing up the face of the rocks, is Monte Carlo, with its famous Casino, to which Monaco owes its prosperity, and from which come the funds that maintain its beautiful gardens and pay for all its municipal expenses. It also furnishes a large part of the ample income of the Prince, who is the present representative of the ancient house of Grimaldi and the reigning monarch of this principality of five and three-quarter square miles. It is creditable to France that on account of the tainted source from which most of his income is derived the Prince is hardly persona grata in the best circles of French society, to which his birth and his talents alike entitle him to the entree. He has, however, a worldwide reputation as a scientist who has specialized in deep sea life, and much of his time is spent on the well-appointed steam yacht which he uses in carrying on his researches. Whatever may be thought of the source of his income, it must be admitted that a great deal of the money is devoted to uses which are far from being ignoble.

In the pursuit of his studies he has accumulated a vast number of scientific treasures, alive and dead. The collection having far outgrown the capacity of the existing museum, the Prince conceived the idea of erecting at his own expense a splendid new building which would be at once a suitable home for his collection and an ornament to the town. This building is now approaching completion—in a leisurely fashion. A year ago it looked as if a year at the utmost would have been sufficient for its completion, but it looks now as if another year at least may have passed before it is entirely completed. The cut stone work is not yet finished, although the plastering is very nearly so. Some rooms, however, are in use. The site being—as is not unusual in the Riviera

—cut out of the solid rock, there are on the side next the sea two storeys below the main floor, which is but a few steps above the level of the street on the land side. En-

tering by a gate and passing through the stone cutters' yard to a basement entrance and descending by an inside stair to the lowest storey, one reaches a room which is finished and occupied as an 'aquarium. The tanks are constructed in up-to-date style, with glass sides and reflectors, rockeries, jets of water in some places and streams of air in others. 'The occupants are all out of the common. Some of them are indescribably wierd; some water snakes are villainously handsome; but some of the fishes are truly beautiful, with a variety and delicacy of color that would' make the most gorgeous bird of plumage look coarse and crude by comparison. The executive department is evidently to be housed in the basement.

·The general plan of the building is very simple. An entrance hall with a wide staircase ascending at each side (not yet erected) leads to a main central hail about 60 feet square, out of which a barge room opens on the right and another on the left, each about 130 by 45 feet. The central hall has four massive columns of a kind of dove marble, placed so as to form a square of about 30 feet in the middle, which is marked out on the ceiling by heavy beams running each way and intersecting over the columns, under the ends of which are marble pilasters corresponding with the columns. The ceilings are lofty, deeply coffered and enriched with staff ornaments. The arrangement of the first floor is similar, but the two large rooms are to have galleries on the sides and the far end and have, therefore, two rows of windows, smaller ones below the galleries and larger above.

The construction is of the most substantial character, with thick walls, apparently of dimension stone, and floors of steel beams, hollow brick arches and concrete. It seems a pity that the furring down of the ceilings should be done in wood. Floors are of tile or wood blocks on concrete. The exterior is of a light buff limestone and is well designed. The principal front is that towards the town, and is somewhat monumental in character, with Corinthian columns embracing the two principal storeys, ·The main entrance projects bodly in the middle. While 'adhering generally to classical traditions, the details wherever possible have been given a character expressive of the purpose of the building. Thus

