<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Lieutenant-Governor Dunsmuir's New House " author="">

Lieutenant-Governor Dunsmuir's New House.

The new country house being erected by LieutenantGovernor Dunsmuir at Hatley Park, about 7 miles from Victoria, B.C., is to be a magnificent mansion in an estate of 232 acres, fronting on the east. side of Esquimalt harbor, directly opposite the naval dock yard. The Vancouver Province contained an account recently of building, from which we take the following:

It will cost, exclusive of furnishings, between $250,000 and $300,000 The land in front of the building has been cleared and the foundations have been laid. Mr.

S.	Maclure, the architect, has been given a free hand in designing the building. The grounds will l)c entered through a large 'stone and wrought iron gate, near which will be the gatekeeper's lodge, built in 15th century Gothic to harmonize with the main building. The building will be 200 feet long and 86 feet wide, with a porte cochere 30 by 20 feet. From the basement rise foundations of concrete and rock-faced granite. The superstructure will comprise two stories and an attic surmounted by a large square central tower with a turret, rising to a. height of 82 feet and capped by a flag staff. It will be built of random rubble, trimmed with Saturna Island sandstone of light grey color. The vestibule is 8 by 9 feet and from it one enters the main hall. 43 by 36 feet, off which at right angles extends east and west through the centre of the building a corridor 141 feet long and 12 feet wide. On either side of the hallway will be located spacious ladies' and gentlemen's cloak rooms. From it also lead a richly carved double flight of stairs. each six feet wide, extending to the gallery and upper hall. The woodwork of these halls and the upper and lower halls and corridors will consist of Canadian quartered oak, including massive timbered oaken roofs, From the gallery or half landing a circular staircase leads to the private apartments in the main tower. The hall on the ground floor will contain a carved stone fireplace, probably of Arizona red sandstone.

Mr. Maclure will direct the building operations this summer, in order to sec that the contractors do not omit a detail. A year hence Mr. Dunsmuir will he occupying one of the most beautiful and comfortable homes in the  Dominion .

The estate fronts on Esquimalt lagoon, in whose waters are reflected the lofty snow-capped mountains of the Olympian range in the State of Washington From its slopes is presented a beautiful view of the Straits of San Juan de Fuca, From the sea shore there is a gentle rise for a distance of about a quarter of a mile, then the ground becomes level, alternating here and there with gentle undulations until the Collingwood plateau is reached. The estate presents a very diversified appearance. Stretches of primeval forest extend to the beach, or are varied with park-like copses of maples and open

spaces. The entire estate will be enclosed by a wire fence and large wooded portions, already the favorite haunt of pheasants, will be utilized as a game preserve. Thus far about fifty acres have been cleared. The estate is reached from Victoria by way of Parson's Bridge and is on the main highway leading to Sooke. On the space already cleared will be located golf links.

The residence will be located on a gently rising slope about five hundred yards from the sea shore. It will command a glorious view of forest and mountains. Mr. Maclure is virtually self-taught and not being hampered by tradition has originated many new styles. He has executed several commissions for several wealthy Californians and many of his designs have been published

in English and American art journals. Mr. Maclure's finely chiselled features portray his artistic gifts. He is a native-born British Columbian the son of an officer in the Royal Engineers, who accompanied Col. Moody to the coast in the early Crown colony days.



<article title=" Toronto, Thirteenth in List " author="">

Toronto, Thirteenth in List.

Toronto's building returns for March show that activity. though falling off as compared with time same month last year, is quite marked, as compared with other cities on the continent of considerably greater population. On the other hand, several cities which lagged far behind have made a good jump and headed Toronto in the race for position. Out of 44 cities, returns from which are tabulated below, only 15 show increases. Toronto's percentage of loss is 44. and while there are a number of cities which Show mm less percentage, there are more which show a larger one. In view of the depression which has existed and which is now beginning to pass away, Toronto has no great reason to be dissatisfied with her position of thirteenth. Following are the comparisons of the larger cities:

