<doctype type="text">

<article title=" CATHEDRAL OF "ALL SAINTS," HALIFAX, N.S." author="">CATHEDRAL OF "ALL SAINTS," HALIFAX, N.S.

Cram, Goodilue & FERGUSON, Architects, New York.



The Heritage of the Anglican Church is rich indeed. Its history, ritual, even its legends have all come to it down the centuries, so that upon each is set the bloom of a hale yet venerable antiquity. And as much to be prized in its own way stands its tradition of building, a thing not lightly to be parted with, and of which the essence should be as present in thc tiniest country church as in the far-resounding aisles of the greatest and hoariest of cathedrals.

The architect of to-day is confronted with many problems, in some cases wholly new ones, for which a solution must be found that shall not clash too greatly with the ethics of his profession in the past, and others there are, almost as ancient as the earliest, temples, yet to

of a diocese; the seat of its bishop, and in designing the Cathedral of ''All Saints'' the architects have endeavored to keep its Episcopal character ever in mind. It makes no claim to consideration on the score of size, for when completed it will still be smaller than many a church in the mother country. Rochester, Beverly, Newcastle are all structures of the third or fourth class as to dimensions, and yet each considerably exceeds the Cathedral of ''All Saints'' But by setting its great tower above the crossing of nave and transepts, by the addition of the eastern transepts, a feature as yet unusual on this side of the Atlantic. but most effective in the typical English cathedrals; and by the careful study that has been given its hare proportions, it is hoped





















































<article title=" Cathedral of "All Saints," Halifax, N.S." author="">Cathedral of "All Saints," Halifax, N.S.



which a wholly modern aspect is given by some detail of construction. In erecting a church, however, no such difficulty is manifest. The essentials are all known, the requirements for each portion, each department, perfectly familiar. These essentials are within the power of the poorest parish that will but build honestly and once obtained cannot be taken away ,no matter how much ill-advised frippery and meaningless decorative adjuncts are allowed to creep in.

A cathedral is something more, however, than a large church, its choir and sanctuary are very differently arranged, and though no church building should lack dignity, a cathedral should possess an added quality, one that should touch the beholder immediately. It is not only a church, it is also the centre of the spiritual life

that when completed, its sturdy spireless tower, rising above the masses of dark foliage that encircle it, above the pictures clue roofs of the old town, the fact that it is not only a church but a cathedral as well will be at once denoted.

Perhaps the greatest disadvantage we of the western world are compelled to undergo in our buildings, in the vast majority of cases at any rate, is the sordid meanness or cheap tawdriness of the surroundings. This condition is so marked in certain portions of America as to quite dishearten the conscientious architect at the very inception of his task. Many noble buildings there are, such as would become beautiful situations abroad, that here seem contemptible, at odds with their environment. But in the present case even this lamentably

