<doctype type="text">



wood that shows a beautiful grain; the ceiling is 'heavily beamed, and the chimney-piece is of wood with tiling around the fireplace, One especially charming structural feature is the buffet, which is built for the room and is excellent. in design and proportion. The general color scheme of this room is red; the furniture is of oak, upholstered in red morocco and decorated with an inlay of red poppies. The two large rugs are in tones of red and green with a black line at either end. The Irish rugs are also of red, one with a shamrock border and one with a maple leaf border. These were hand-woven in Ireland 'by the Misses Hamilton, and are good examples of the soft coloring that is given by vegetable dyes.

The bedroom down-stairs is a Craftsman room, with furniture made of silver gray maple. The study is done in brown with Craftsman chairs of fumed oak, upholstered in hard leather showing the same tones, and stud(led with dull brass nails. The whole of one side of this room is fitted with book shelves built to the height of five feet. The rug, which is in brown and green, was designed and executed by Messrs. Baillie Scott and White, and the pongre curtains are lined with brown silk, giving the last touch to an unusually rich and mellow color scheme,

The second storey is divided into three large bedrooms, each one with ample closet room, and the one at the side. opening into a good sized dressing room. On the opposite side of the central hail are the bathroom and linen room and the stairs leading clown to the kitchen.

The house has an air of home comfort. and restfulness which comes only from the carrying out of a carefully considered and well-balanced scheme that includes planning, furnishing and decorating. The blending of English taste with that which is characteristic of the architecture of own Pacific coast has an effect of quiet sumptuousness, combined with straightforward utility, that gives one the impression of a house that is to be lived in for generations and will remain as it is— a home for the children's children of its present owners.





<article title=" Sketching Club of the P. Q. A. A " author="">Sketching Club of the P. Q. A. A.

The chief event in the social life of the Sketching Club of the P. Q. A. A. took place on Wednesday evening February 12, at the King's Hall Cafe, when over twenty-five members dined. Although the dinner took place later this year than last it proved to be quite as successful and enjoyable to all present Mr. David Brown, as president of the P. Q. A. A. and Mr. W. S. Maxwell. as a strong supporter of the club, were the guests. Professor Nobbs of McGill College was also present and gave a most. interesting address to the members. A large and varied program was carried through by the

club talent.'' including Messrs. Wadsworth, Work, Hargreaves. Smith Noel and Prof. Nobbs.

On Wednesday evening, February 1.9, Dr. Starkey, of McGill gave an interesting lecture in the club rooms on

"Ventilation" before a large turnout.

The last Wednesday of the month was taken up by a lecture by Mr. W. S. Maxwell on the ''Grand Palais et Le Petit Palais. " The popularity of the subject brought out an attendance of thirty—one members. Mr. Maxwell fully illustrated his talk by a large number of plans and lantern slides, These buildings two of the permanent features of the last Paris Exposition, proved to be 11 highly worthy of the time spent on them, representing as they do all that is living in the French schools of to—day. The plans submitted by the various competitors proved of great interest. and were made thoroughly clear by Mr. Maxwell, who confined himself rather more to explanation and description than to criticism.



<article title=" Montreal Real Estate." author="">Montreal Real Estate.

At the present moment real estate dealers in and  around the city are most optimistic in discussing the state of the market. They find that inquiries for residence property are more frequent than they were a short time ago and sales are now taking place rapidly. The sale of the Alliance Building on St. James street has proved the event ·of the season thus far in realty circles The transaction was carried through by Cradock Simpson and created quite a flutter down—town during the last week of February

The advent of several new firms to the city shows that the ' ' boom ' is not ended vet. However sales thus far, although numerous have not been of extraordinary interest, with the single exception of the large one indicated .

At a meeting of the directors of the Park Realty Company Limited. Montreal Mr. J. M. Greenshields K. C. and Mr. P. T. Hopper were added to the directorate, which is now composed of Messrs. Robert Bickerdike, M. P. president. George Ball. ex-M.P. vice-president and Sydney P. Howard Frederick Abraham. G. A. Forbes J. N. Roche and A. George Blair. Mr. John  Findlay was appointed manager and secretary-treasurer of the company. He is also selling agent for the company's property. which consists of over 2.000 lots. and will be known as the Park Avenue Extension.

Among the most recently established firms is the  Montreal Real Estate Market,'' organized by Mr. Henry Frigen. for buying and selling real estate. making a		specialty of acting as selling agent for sub-divisions,	although general lines of real estate will not be

 neglected .

In Westmount properties the market holds good and residences and attractive pieces of property in the town are being rapidly picked up. The movement to have Westmount incorporated as a city has attracted attention to the place and is sure to enhance the value of property if it is canned through successfully Few places a around Montreal have so many fine opportunities as a residential place as this progressive town.

