<doctype type="text">



castellated additions intended to be in harmony with what remains of medieval work at the end of the rock facing shorewards. 'There is little about it of architectural interest unless a white marble outside staircase and loggia with classical frescoes in the quadrangle. As a palace it is but a pigny compared with those of the European capitals generally, but there is a handsome suite of reception rooms richly furnished.

The defensive equipment of the principality consists of an army of 75 men and some half dozen ornamental bronze guns of the 16th century, which stand on the esplanade in front of the palace with the usual pyramids of bails beside them. The palace garden is small but beautifully laid out with beds of brilliant flowers, clumps of bamboos, orange, mimosa, pepper, palm and other sub-tropical trees in great luxuriance. It is fenced by a low stone wall. built on the very edge of the perpendicular rock, which has a sheer drop to the sea of about 200 feet.

For a place with a history dating back some 2,000 years, the old town is singularly destitute of anything of architectural interest. Some half dozen quaint Renaissance doorpieces, obviously belonging to older buildings, are about all that is to be found. None of the present houses are very old. The walls are plastered and the openings perfectly plain. The streets, however, have a general air of picturesqueness. being narrow, winding and irregular, the buildings three to five stories high with green shuttered windows, balconies and arch-ways making deep shadows, and here and there an earthquake arch or a bit of balustrate topping a low house. The chief charm is in the light and shade and the coloring in which yellows and siennas and pinks and greens have been toned down and softened and blended with delightful harmony.



<article title=" Structural Glass Flooring " author="">

Structural Glass Flooring.

The fact that each of the familiar and long-tried materials for covering the walls and floors of bathrooms and lavatories has at least one serious shortcoming has led to the introduction of a patent sanitary structural glass. It is milky white in color, and comes in thicknesses of half an inch, the slabs being otherwise almost unlimited in size. This insures case of setting, and the least number of joints in the finished room. The material will not swell or shrink, craze or discolor and is absolutely non-absorbent, which is more than can be said for marble. When used for floors it is given a thumb-nail polish (similar to statuary marble), while the highly polished variety is used for walls.—Indoors and Out.





<article title=" New Theatre for Brantford " author="">

New Theatre for Brantford.

Managar Johnson. who will erect a new theatre in Brantford seating two thousand people, has applied to the City Council for a fixed assessment of $5,000 for ten years. The request will be granted. The city is getting the right to the free use of the building four nights each year, and at a nominal rate of 12 per night on other occasions, when the ball is required for civic purposes. The structure will be erected this summer





At a special meeting of the Belleville City Council the taxe rate for the year was struck at 27 mills on the dollar. The increase of taxation is owing to considerable expenditure, which amounts to several thousand dollars.

<article title=" Concrete Construction " author="">

Concrete Construction.

Continued from page 15.





around the most convenient outside column of the floor just being erected. This hoist is taken from floor to floor as the work progresses, the cost. of moving being very small. An ideal mixing plant was described in the Canadian Contract Record'' of October 31, 1906.

In addition to the mixer and hoist, the plant should consist of a power saw and grinding stone. A steel bar cutter and bending machine are also necessary when bars are to be bent on the work. A bolt threading and boring machine should be added on larger work.

On a concrete structure everybody and everything should work in a cycle As much as possible. the same gang of carpenters should do the same part of the form work from start to finish followed by another gang doing another part, etc. T tie laborers with the concrete barrows should not return by the runways on which they are bringing the concrete. It is economy to have two men doing nothing else lint placing and moving runways while concreting is in progress.

<article title=" SUPERINTENDENT 'S RESPONSIBILITIES " author="">SUPERINTENDENT 'S RESPONSIBILITIES

The most important man on the work is naturally the superintendent, more so on concrete construction because on all other building material the neautral axis of a structural member is fixed before it reaches the job. it is the superintendent who really establishes the neutral axis on concrete work and not the designing engineer. I am well aware of the significance of this statement. It is not necessary for the construction superintendent to be a graduate of sonic university of technical school, hut it is absolutely necessary that he be thoroughly familiar with the properties of the ingredients of concrete and with the reinforcement. In other words he should have a little theoretical knowledge combined with a great deal of practical experience. His knowledge of proportioning, mixing, placing concrete and reinforcement must be complete to avoid disastrous results. the loss of money and life. To test the strength of concrete by sound Or by scratching the surface with a knife or nail takes years of practice.

Concrete properly handled is one of the greatest building materials. Its possibilities are unlimited. Some of I lie readers might not lie aware of the fact that concrete barges and pontoons are built with success to-day. There are two conditions which will alone — in the writer's estimation bring concrete ahead of the steel industry in a short time, the depletion of the forests and the heavy insurance tax. the latter is in America ''two hundred millions a year more than in Europe on a per capita basis." The cause for this enormous difference will be found in the flimsy construction amid it is safe to say that reinforced concrete will speedily replace millions of these fire traps.

In conclusion the writer would say to the contractor:

place a concrete specialist on your staff, for ''the game is a winning game'' and allows no taking of chances.







Nova Scotia exchanges recently contained flattering mention of Leslie R. Fairmi, architect of Aylesford. N.S. Among the buildings recently constructed from his plans are the new $50,000 high school at Sussex NB. said to lie the safest and best. planned in Canada, the fine modern Kings County jail. and St. Joseph's Glebe house at Kentville, N.S. His plans have been accepted for the new Presbyterian amid Baptist churches at Sussex.

