<doctype type="text">



<article title=" Building in Montreal " author="">Building in Montreal.

The building situation in Montreal at present is by no means as satisfactory as it might be. It is perhaps a little early in the year to make any definite statement yet as to the work expected. but the months of January and February show a decided decrease in the number of permits issued. During the first month twenty-seven permits were made out by the city inspector, and in the second the number increased to forty-four. representing values of $55,650 and $72,590 respectively. In both cases there is a decrease compared with the corresponding periods of last year. however, as far as the architectural men are concerned there is now a notable change in the situation, and a fair year is hoped for if all The

projects on hand materialize.

There are fewer men out of work than there were during the severest part of the winter, hut there is still plenty of available help.

 Rumors are afloat that there is likely to be a reduction iii wages among the building trades shortly. ad this is augmented by talk of a strike, a most unfortunate occurrence at this time of the year. Bricklayers now receive 50 cents an hour for a nine-hour day. but if the master bricklayers' intentions hold good there will be a reduction to 45 or even 30 cents an hour. the wage depending on the ability of the workman. Employers expect a strike, if is said, and are prepared to meet it. hut the union men have nothing definite to say in the mean— time.

It is at present denied that. the carpenters will participate in a strike. It is to be hoped, however, that the  strike trouble will disappear, at least for the city's own welfare. especially when a reduction in the work to be executed is expected.





Thomas A. Edison and "Mr. Punch." the London ' "Punch" Great Britain's acknowledged

master of the revels, takes a jocular view of Mr. Edison's plan to pour concrete houses while the prospective tenant waits in front with his household goods, ready to move in as soon as the cement stops running. "Mr. Punch'' says:

''Mr. Edison 's announcement. while paralyzing the building trades. has stimulated activity in other quarters

"The more extravagant party in the London County Council talk of having liquid-cement mains in suburban London. It would be a great boon, they argue. to the

ratepayer to be able to turn on the cement, just as now-a days he turns on the water for the garden hose. If unexpected guests come, for whom there is no room in the house, if a fowl-house or dog kennel should be required, if the householder has ambitious towards a billiard room if a porch or conservatory, or even a summer house, should need to be built, if the roof begins to leak in a storm, or (as in some cases it has done) become restless. if the garden wall must be raised to keep next-door from staring—in fifty different emergencies a ratepayer would find an ever-ready supply of liquid cement most useful. All he would have to do would he to send down to the local ironmonger for the moulds, stick them up, and then leave the tap running into them, with perhaps the youngest boy to keep an eye on it.



''We would like to suggest that the cement tap ought







Pilkington Brothers limited

Fireproof wired glass

Montreal, Winnipeg, Toronto, Vancouver



The Canadian Bridge Company, limited

Steel buildings, roof trusses

Walkerville, Ontario

