<doctype type="text">

<article title=" P. Q. A. A. DISCUSS ARCHITECTS' REGISTRATION " author="">P. Q. A. A. DISCUSS ARCHITECTS' REGISTRATION.

A special general meeting of the P. Q. A. A. was held on Friday, December 20th, at the Association rooms to consider the course to be taken ill regard to the new Canadian Institute of Architects and their project to obtain a charter. Mr. David R. Brown, vice-president, occupied the chair and about twenty members were present including Messrs. Dunlop, Chausse and Veuve of the new institute.

Mr. A. Chausse gave a brief outline of the formation and organization of the new institute and indicated that when some of the clauses of the proposed charter of incorporation should come to be considered by the Dominion Government it would probably be found that the promoters would be referred to the Provincial Government on the ground that the matters dealt with were such as concerned the province primarily. For such delay as this entailed they might have to be prepared, but lie was hopeful that the local associations would be able to prevail upon their several legislatures to give their authority to the project.

Mr. Chausse had letters from representatives of most of the local bodies expressing approval of the scheme. Mr. l)oran pointed out that the proposed charter, while declaring that it did not propose to infringe tile rights of such bodies as already possessed charters, nevertheless, did constitute an infringement of the P. Q. A. A.'s charter, in that it provided for the establishment of a Dominion licensing body side by side with the provincial body.

The Dominion body would have power to override the decisions of the P. Q. A. A. The provincial body might take pains to do its own licensing, but their decisions would be liable to nullification by the three men who would form a quorum of the Canadian Institute Examining Committee. In his opinion the question of licensing was purely a provincial question, and the idea of making it a Dominion one he thought was impracticable.

The medical profession had made an attempt similar to this wilen Dr. Roddick's bill was brought before tile Government. All efforts to pass the bill had failed, and he thought tile. same reasons would militate against the proposed new charter. He was ill favor of the idea of a Dominion Institute, but it should be on federal lines, not a governing body; such an institute should develop through the established societies appointing representatives to meet together and discuss the questions calling for their attention and gradually applying for more general and exclusive powers. The manner in which the Canadian Institute of Architects was working was that of making an entirely fresh start by individual members of the profession with had prepared a general charter on their own account which the Government had probably no power to pass. The work should be done, he thought, by associations anti not by individual members.

Mr. Dunlop said he had accepted the post of president of the new Institute to do what was in his power to

advance the status of the profession and the interests of architectural education. No one had the interests of the Quebec association more at heart than he himself, and he wanted to see these interests protected in the act of incorporation of the Institute.

Mr. Venne stated that he accepted the idea of the Institute as a means of promoting the education and unifying the interests of the profession. He though that the



project of incorporation as at present proposed went beyond what the Dominion could grant in the interests of the other provinces in the matter of securing registration.

Mr. A. C. Hutchison said that as one who had taken part in the work of incorporating the Quebec association, lie was zealous to see that the energy which had been expended in obtaining the Quebec charter should not be made vain by admitting 'any infringements upon it. After supporting what Mr. Doran had said, he asked Mr. Chausse whether tinder the proposed charter a member of the P. Q. A. A., not being a member of the Institute, would be able to practice outside the Province of Quebec. Mr. Chausse replied in the negative. Mr. J. S. Archibald said that as a loyal member of the P. Q. A. A. he was surprised that members of the association should as individuals promote a new Institute. They should act, he said, through the association which was organized to represent them, which was there to advance all their interests, which claimed and required their support anti did not get too much of it. As a member of the legal committee of tile P. Q A. A. he would like to point out that at present, on complying with certain formalities, a member of the Quebec Association is free to practise anywhere in the Dominion. If the propossed Act were passed they would be limited to the Province of Quebec unless they became members of the Canadian Institute. If a Dominion licensing body were established they need Fo be prepared to undertake the expense of enforcing its decisions. During the past year alone the maintenance of their charter rights had cost the P. Q. A. A. $500. The enforcement of registration over the entire Dominion was therefore something not to be lightly undertaken. He disliked very much to oppose a Dominion Institute, but the rights of the P. Q. A. A. should not be yielded. Mr. W. S. Maxwell pointed out that in the event of the establishment of a Dominion Institute a certain lowering of the standard now established in the Province of Quebec would have to ,be faced. We have in Quebec a hard standard for all entering the profession. Men in other parts who have not access to the same facilities for study cannot reasonably be expected to pass such a standard, and therefore he thought that it would have to be lowered.

Mr. R. Lacroix indicated that clause 5, section C, while including present members of the P. Q. A. A., was so worded as to exclude future members. Mr. Chausse claimed that. section E provided for their inclusion

Mr. Chausse explained that the project of the Act of Incorporation had been Placed before Parliament, but was still open for amendments. The members of the new Institute were to meet later and would be pleased

