<doctype type="text">



To the ground floor have been assigned the principal departments, viz., those of the Treasury, Public Works and Agriculture. The Post-Office has been located at the main entrance as required by your conditions. Ample male and female cloak room and lavatory and vault accommodation is provided, the latter as far as practicable opening off the rooms which they serve.

On the second floor is found the Attorney-General's Department, the Departments of Education and Railways, and those of the Provincial Secretary and Mimicipal Commissioner, while the draughting rooms in connection with the Chief Engineer's Office of the Department of Public Works and the Department of Railways are located on the north side, where a suitable light is obtainable.

In tire basement. will be found the members' dining room, a smoking room, a private dining room and a smoking room, the staff lunch room, with the kitchen department conveniently located to serve both dining and lunch rooms.

In addition to the elevator service for the members desiring to reach the dining room, two stairways for their exclusive use lead from near the Legislative Chamber direct to the dining and smoking rooms. It will be noted that a private stairway also leads front the stack room on the main floor direct to the newspaper files room in the basement. The Government Printer has been located in the west end of the basement, with a separate entrance door. The receiving, storing and distribution of supplies, etc., is thus facilitated. The balance of the basement is devoted to a storage chamber for each department and for quarters for the janitor and engineer.

The tunnel for the conveyance of heating pipes, wires, etc., from the power house to the building is shown on the plot plan, so arranged that when the future additions are erected the tunnel will be in the right relative position to serve them. This tunnel it is proposed to extend under the basement corridors, so that ready access may lie had to all pipes. wires, ducts, etc, as well as to the elevator machines, the level of the drainage permitting of such an arrangement.

The floor areas for the various departments are permitted to he varied slightly, at the discretion of the competing architects. therefore, as a basis of comparison. the areas demanded arid those provided are hereby given

		Area	 Area

		demanded.	provided.

Attorney-General's Department		 5,800	6,469

Department of Public Works	. . 	13,750	13,656

Treasury Department		 5,850	 6,350

Department of Agriculture 		 8,250	 7,401

Department of Education		 3,750	 3,835

Provincial Secretary		 3,200	 3,082

Government Printer		 1.450	 1.480

Department of Railways		 3,650	 4.077

Municipal Commissioner		 3,400	 3,000

	Total	49,100	49,350

The remaining apartments are of almost identically the areas asked for in each ease..

The areas of the vaults provided on each floor are herein given. slightly exceeding the demand for ten thousand square feet of floor area.

Square feet.

Basement	4,206

Ground floor	4,650

Main floor	202

Second floor	2.400

	Total	11.458

The total cubic contents of the building have been carefully taken and amount to 4,291,242 cubic feet, which is guaranteed as correct within a very small fraction. The building of the dome will necessarily be of a inure expensive character than the balance of the work. This dome contains 223,200 cubic feet, measured as square, which would cost 50 cents per cubic foot, equaling $111.600. The main portion of the building contains 4,068,042 cubic feet, which would cost 28 cents per cubic foot, equaling $l,139,051.76, making a total of $l,250,651.76.

In designing the exterior of the building a free adoption of English Renaissance work has been employed, as being best suited to the requirements, and offering a logical, sensible a rid architecturally interesting solution of the problem that marks it unmistakably as representative of the British sovereignty, under winch the province is governed. The combination of red brick and pale buff stone is particularly happy when used with discretion in this style, and it is felt that no extended description of the facades is requisite. By careful study of massing, fenestration, outline arid detail, a building such as is herewith presented should prove to be all that could be desired to house the legislature and administration of what is destined to be one of the most important provinces of the Dominion. To this end dignity, simplicity and purity of style have been combined with a monumental treatment of the best period of British architecture, to produce a building that it is believed will serve its purpose in the best possible manner. When the time comes to extend tire administrative offices; etc., as shown on the plot plan, the beauty of the structure will be further enhanced by the symmetrical treatment of the proposed extensions.



<article title=" A MODEL CITY " author="">A MODEL CITY.

It is the intention of the Grand Trunk Pacific to make a model city of Prince Rupert, the Pacific coast terminus of the great transcontinental road, now being built, arid with this end in view two Boston landscape architects are on the way to the site of the new place. Messrs. Brett arid Hall, the architects, will spend some six or eight weeks on the ground, and will make a thorough study of all the conditions, in order flint they may lie able to present a report on their return.

