<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Handsome Modern English Type of House " author="">

Handsome Modern English Type of House.

The design of a house in Rosedale, and its two floor plans, shown in this issue, are the work of Messrs. Wick-son & Gregg, architects, Toronto. The house is being erected on Lamport avenue on a lot, over a hundred feet wide and extending hack some five hundred feet into the ravine to thc north. The cost of the building is to be about $13,000. The exterior, of a modern English style, will be in dark red brick mixed with occasional almost black bricks. The brick points are to be white. The upper half of the building is to be partially of plaster on the brick wall. The library, dining and sitting rooms will all overlook the ravine to the north, and for this reason the kitchen has been placed at the front of the house, which faces to the south. A third floor, of which no plan is shown, will contain a large billiard room, two good bedrooms, a bathroom and a storeroom. The hall and dining room arc panelled in white oak and are tiled. The dining room will have a beam ceiling. The building is now very near completion. The exterior view shown is taken from the south, showing the Lam-port avenue face of the house. The house is being built for Mr. James McLenaghen.







The bill to amend the Architects' Act, which was introduced in the Ontario Legislature, has been withdrawn. Hon. Mr. Foy recommended this course when the bill was before the Legal Committee. ·He said that the bill had better come up next session. He understood that the University authorities were averse to it, and thought the contending parties could come together and have a new bill next session. The bill provided for Provincial examinations before architects could advertise as such.

<article title=" Architecture at Montreal Art Exhibit " author="">Architecture at Montreal Art Exhibit.

The Architectural Section at the 24th annual spring Art Exhibition at Montreal was by no means as strong as the sister arts and was crowded in among the black and white work. Among the notable works shown were Messrs. Ed. and W. S. Maxwell's winning designs for the Regina and Ottawa Legislative Buildings. Professor Nobbs showed his MacDonald Engineering Building and a proposed front for the old Medical Building at McGill University. Messrs. Saxe & Archibald were represented by two residences and an interior of Emmanuel Church. Messrs. Hutcheson & Wood showed a proposed church at Westmount. Messrs. Finley & Spence exhibited their competitive design for thc Government Buildings at Ottawa, and an office building. Messrs. Ross & MacFarlane were well represented by the new Bank of Toronto, which was unfortunately hung, and several factory buildings. Messrs. Peden & MacLaren exhibited several banks and cottages, and Robert Finley showed a number of residences. Kenneth G. Rea showed a residence. There were also a large number of other drawings of domestic work, but chiefly of less than passing interest. It looks as if some attention might be given to the hanging of good architectural photographs instead of the large amount of mediocre perspectives, it being generally understood to-day that exhibitions of this nature should represent actual architecture more than mere draughtsmanship, especially where the latter so often falls short of the result attained.





A new Orange hall for West Toronto will be erected on a lot 50 feet by 132 feet, which has been purchased for the purpose on thc corner of College street and Euclid avenue. The Western District Orange hall Company has been incorporated to finance the scheme, with a share capital of $40,000.

