<doctype type="text"> safety and permanence is to be erected. The first of these is the soundness of material. All material utilized must be of the best description for the purpose intended, and free of any flaw or defect in its composition. Again, it must be properly built into its respective place, and thoroughly secured.

Much has to be considered in the building of material into the general construction of the work, as much depends upon the kind of material utilized. It may be the necessary size of timber required to support a super incumbent weight; again, it may be the arrangement

of the structural iron or steel work in the construction of heavy engineering or manufacturing work. In time construction of buildings may be also included time sanitary and hygienic arrangements, winch are of vital importance to the health of the community The erection of sewage pipes from the house, and the internal arrangements of the plumbers' work, have an important bearing upon the general construction of the building. And it is impossible in this limited article to enumerate the several contingent subjects which would have to be considered in a thorough study of building construction, and the full development of artistic design. Yet when the strength and durability of materials are attended to, and the proper methods of construction are adopted, hat give safely and permanence along with elegance of design in the style selected, then a building will be produced that. not only may be serviceable for the necessary requirements, but also excellent in many architectural features.

<article title=" Legislative Buildings, Edmonton, Alberta " author="">

Legislative Buildings, Edmonton, Alberta.

(Continued from page 10)





and ornamental pilasters and cornices to time optical beamed and paneled ceilings of the dome.

There are openings all around time rotunda at every flour level, having square or circular tops as best suits the design ; 'these openings are finished with ornamental marble columns and balustrades. The pendentives which spring from the octagon corners are panneled, and the circular friezes immediately over will have an oil or water color painting of a suitable design, representing scenes historical or typical of the province.

The general finish of the rotunda and its corridor will be in marble and ornamental and decorative plaster work.

GRAND STAIRCASE HALL



When we leave the rotunda, and approach the legislative wing we have a choice of passing on wither side of the grand staircase to the library or restraint Going up the grand staircase, and arriving at the top or second floor we face the legislative chamber, with its ornamental entrance and bronze doors.

Time sides of the grand staircase hall have ornamental columns finished with a moulded cornice, and above the cornice springs a barrel vaulted ceiling, which is beamed and handed, and has an ornamental glass skylight. Tim two long sides and one end of the ceiling will have

lunettes which will be decorated with pictorial paintings Around the grand staircase hall will be corridors finished on open sides with ornamental balustrades and pedestals for statuary. and on wall sides with decorative panels and pi tasters.

The general finish of the grand staircase hail will he in keeping with that of the rotunda.

	LEGISLATIVE	CHAMBER



The legislative chamber is a room 56 feet square , and extends in height through the second and third stories. in its design it follows the dignified lines of tile Ionic order, there being two detached columns on each of the four sides, and angle plasters at the corners.

These columns are brought together with a moulded corn ice continuous around the four sides of the chamber Above the cornice will be a large barrel vault, having paneled beams and ceilings and ornamental al glass skylight and in the north and south ends will be large elliptical lunettes, which will have grand historical pictures painted on them. Tile sides of the chamber will have solid partitions separating the speaker's room, members' and general retiring rooms from the chamber The speaker's and members' ' rooms will have fireplaces and all toilet accessories and conveniences,

Over the rooms surroundings the legislative chamber on time third floor will he the various galleries given over to time use of the public members' and speaker's friends and 1 lie press In addition to the press gallery, there will be a room given over to the use of the members of the press, directly connected with the press gallery, for time purpose of making up their reports

UTILITIES



Every floor of the administrative wings will have one service elevator, two service staircases, three vaults and lavatories.

The rotunda will have two public elevators, access being gained to them through arched openings on time basement. and first floors and by way of the corridor around the rotunda on all floors a hove the first floor.

Beside the grand staircase in the legislative wing, there will be service stairs to tile basement, private stairs for the members of parliament, and stairs to the galleries for tile public one vault., and private labatories.

the building will be heated and ventilated by modern system of steam hot water and warm air, that has proven successful in other buildings of this character and uses that this building will he putt to. All parts of time building will be cleaned by pneumatic or vacuum process.

The plumbing will be of time very best, and will have fixtures for hot as well as cold water.

The heating ventilating and pneumatic plants will be installed in the sub-basement story, but the main steam mind electric plant will be in a separate power station, situate to avoid smoke and gas nuisance.

Access from the power station to the building will be by a tunnel connecting with the sub-basement of the building. This tunnel will also be used for transmission purposes for main steam and vacuum pipes and electrical wires.

