<doctype type="text">



ously, anti a class is being formed under the charge of Mr. L. L. Kilpin of London. Eng. This is to he held on a separate night from the usual Wednesday meetings and will not interfere with the ordinary working of the Club. The membership has increased considerably, and a. strong effort is being made to make this a record session.



<article title=" JUDGMENTS OF COLORS " author="">JUDGMENTS OF COLORS.

If one could compare colors as seen in the light of a north window with the same colors as seen by the light of a late afternoon sun the result would be somewhat startling, writes Dr. Louis Belt in the ''Illuminating Engineer.'' For the light of the sky is very rich in blue rays, as its line in the sky suggests Of the total light in a sunny day some fifteen to twenty per cent, is suffused sky light scattered from finely divided matter suspended in the air. Lacking such action, the sky itself would lie black and every sunless room an abyss of darkness.

Therefore, daylight, as we know it, even in full sunshine has a bluish east compared with sunlight itself. and diffused daylight by itself is quite strongly blue. Hence the blue shadows on snow compared with the warm hue of the sunlight, the contrast being heightened by the effects of simultaneous contrast.

These peculiarities of daylight must he borne in mind in the everyday work of illumination Take, for example. the apparently simple question of determining the interior finish of a room It is entirely possible to find tints which will do admirably in diffused daylight, but which will lead to complete failure in artificial light. A good type of this action may he found in a light shade of blue. A room papered in such a tint will be light and pleasant in diffused daylight, but when the gas is turned on there is trouble at once. For equal intensities in the red sky-light has some twenty-five times as much blue and violet as does gaslight. The blue paper kills the red by selective reflection, and the gaslight has no blue to speak of anyhow. so that the net result is almost entire absence of help from the walls in spite of their apparently light tint. On the oilier hand, deep reds anti greens are of very low luminosity as diffusive surfaces, and although selectively they are not bad, they still kill the incident light most effectively, and many n man has had his gas bill doubled by employing them too freely.

A deeply colored paper may have a fairly high coefficient of diffuse reflection for a particular color, but if that color is of low luminosity this reflection is of no

practical value. For example, a certain clear blue has a co-efficient of fully TO per cent, for the blue and violet, but the actual luminosity of the region involved being only perhaps 5 per cent the selective act ion is practically worthless. The moral of all this is that the colors for interior finish, when artificial lighting is a. matter of importance. should be tried by the illuminant it is intended to use. for a daylight comparison. unless made by an expert in illumination, is likely to be very deceptive.

Akin to the errors in judgment involved in passing from natural to artificial light are those produced by

what one may call ''mass effects" in color. These occur with both natural and artificial light, and are prolific sources of annoyance cursed on their account, and many a wallpaper condemned and soon replaced. The whole thing is so simple that it hardly needs explanation, and yet people in general persist in forgetting about it. Any interior illumination is the sum of that received direct from the radiant and that diffusedly reflected once or many times from the walls. Therefore, the average color value is determined by the sum of these elements, and since at each reflection from a colored surface time favored color is relatively intensified, the more a particular color occupies an interior the more intense it becomes and the deeper in tone. A small sample of paint or paper is then an entirely fallacious guide as to the effect which will lie produced. Eu masse the color grows stronger and more pervading, and the sample which looks just right may prove dark and muddy when in place.

The ceiling color likewise is an important element in the general result. If this be white, all the color tones of the wall lighten, the same as they are influenced by simultaneous contrast, while a dark ceiling plays its own part in the general effect.

Striking changes in color tone, such as appear in fabrics under artificial light, are seldom found in interior finish, most pigment is showing general absorption over a considerable range of the spectrum without sharply defined absorption bands. But the general effects are nevertheless very marked. and their inter-relation is

sometimes	most deceptive.









<article title=" BOOK REVIEWS " author="">BOOK REVIEWS.

The Engineering News Publishing Company. New York, have forwarded us a copy 'of ''Specifications and Contracts.'' a work which comprises a series of lectures delivered by J. A. Waddell, C. E _ D. Sc., LL.D., an engineer of wide experience who has been associated with many big enterprises in this country, and practical working examples by John C. Wait. M.C.E., LL.B., well known as the author of ''Engineering and Architectural Jurisprudence.'' Price $1 net.

"Modern Baths and Bath Rooms.'' by Win. Paul Gerhard, is an interesting and compact, vet comprehensive treatise upon one of the most attractive subjects of modern hygiene. Considering that the Romans of old, the G reeks, a mid others, took such a peculiar pride in every detail connected with the bath, it may perhaps he some— what doubtful whether this work can be included among subjects of modern hygiene. Be that as it. may. there has been during the last few years a revival of interest in the matter of bathing. and its honorable connection serves only to render the subject doubly attractive and convince one of its importance. The volume is printed in clear type and is neatly hound, consists of upwards of three hundred pages and contains one hundred and thirty Illustrations, and is well worth a perusal Publishers, John Wiley & Sons, New York. Price, $3.

