<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Winnipeg's Latest Bank Building " author="">

Winnipeg's Latest Bank Building.

An excellent illustration of the progress made by Winnipeg in recent years is afforded by the importance which it has come to assume to the Canadian banks. In the cast of Canada we are accustomed to seeing handsome and elaborate bank buildings. The Rank of Nova Scotia has now decided 'to erect in Winnipeg a building which will compare well with any of the splendid banking structures that have been put up in the older parts of the country. The location is at the corner of Portage avenue and Garry street. The building is to cost about $250,000 , and the architects are Messrs. Darling & Pear-son. of Toronto. The contract is reported to have been let to Thomas Kelly & Sons. The exterior of the building is to be of Renaissance type, constructed of semiglazed English terra cotta, with ·a granite base five feet high. There are to be four stories and a dome. As will be seen from the accompanying illustration, the building is to have an entrance at the corner of the two streets. The front is to be elaborate and have richly ornamented detail. The entrance door is to be flanked by two bronze candelabra, and the front steps will bc of granite. The vestibule and rotunda will be lined with marble and will have marble floors.

Passing through the vestibule, one will enter the rotunda and then the banking room, which is to have a handsome marble tile floor. This will be a long and very high room, the proportions being thirty-four feet wide and seventy-three long by twenty-eight feet in height. It will contain accommodation for sixteen clerks. At the far end of the banking room will be situated the two vaults, one for the treasury and the other for the books. The banking room will bc finished with a dado ten and one-half feet high, of each stone plaster, and' above this will be plain white plaster. The ceiling will be of ornamental plaster beams. A feature of the 'accommodation for the clerks will be a series of five alcoves at one side of the banking room, with room for two standing desks in each. The manager's room is to be situated between the vestibule and the banking room, and will be fifteen feet by seventeen feet, containing a handsome alcove marked off by two columns, in which there will be located a gas grate. In the rotunda, which one enters from the vestibule, will be an iron and marble winding stairway, leading to the safety deposit vaults in the basement. Reside the stairway will be the elevator, and beyond that a marble stairway leading to the upper stories. The two lower floors will be devoted to banking. On the mezzanine floor 'are to be three offices while on the first floor there will be eleven offices and on the second floor twelve offices. In the upper stories the offices will be rented for general business purposes,

In the basement at the foot of the iron stairway there will be a space, twenty-two by twenty-four feet, in front of the safety deposit vault. The vault will be seventeen feet by twenty-six feet, with the usual coupon rooms to one side. Beyond this there will be the boiler room and the fuel room, also locker rooms and lavatories for the clerks, and a big vault twelve feet by fifteen and a half feet for the use of the bank.

The specifications call for steam heating, which will be supplied by one large boiler. Expanded metal lathing is to be used throughout. the floors will be of concrete, fireproof. The whole building is to be of fireproof construction. with fireproof terra cotta partitions and furring. On the ground floor the woodwork is to be of mahogany and the rest of the building is to be furnished throughout in quarter-cut white oak. The roof is to be flat, made of pitch and gravel.

A glance at the 'accompanying illustration will show that the building will be a decided acquisition to the banking buildings of Winnipeg. The decision of the Bank of Nova Scotia to put up such a splendid build-big will be greatly appreciated by the business men of Winnipeg, and it will probably go a long way towards persuading other banks to follow suit.

The property upon which the building will stand was purchased for $2,800 a foot. This was the highest price ever paid for realty in Winnipeg. The 01(1 building which now stands on the property was one of the original warehouses in Port Garry It was built of hewn oak logs, and at the time 'the walls of the old fort were destroyed the building was removed to its present location and covered with boards, as it now appears. Hon. Wm. Hespeler was the purchaser who removed it to its present site.





<article title=" Addition to Bank of Nova Scotia's Toronto Office " author="">Addition to Bank of Nova Scotia's Toronto Office.

The Bank of Nova Scotia has commenced operations to enlarge its 'accommodation on King street west, Toronto. The frontage on Melinda street will be doubled by the recent purchase of a lot extending 80 feet northward towards King street. The present banking room will be extended through to Melinda street, with a double right angle at the centre. The new portion will have a basement and five storeys. The exterior will be of stone frame and pressed brick. The cost of the addition will be about $55,000 On the ground floor there is to be no connection with the adjoining offices, but on the next floor the banking offices will be extended over both the old and the new building. The treatment of the new section of the banking room on the ground floor will be similar to that of the old section, The architects are Messrs. Darling & Pearson. Toronto.







<article title=" Death of Hugh McCowan, of Winnipeg " author="">Death of Hugh McCowan, of Winnipeg.

One of the pioneer citizens of Winnipeg, and a leading figure in architectural work, passed away recently in the person of Hugh MeCowan, highly respected and well known by nearly all of the old-timers His death came suddenly and was a great shock to a large circle of friends, who regarded him with the highest esteem Probably there was no architect in Winnipeg whose name was closer linked with the development arid growth of Winnipeg than the late Mr. McCowan. lie was born at Wardsville. Ont., 67 years ago and went to Winnipeg about thirty years ago. Since that time he had resided there continuously. He engaged in the contracting business for several years and was highly successful. Later his natural ability drew him into the architectural work and in this branch he encountered unusual success. He was always considered one of the leading architects and his opinion was looked upon as being extremely valuable Among the buildings which he supervised were the jubilee wing of the general hospital, the Collegiate Institute, the Henderson block on Princess street, the Stovel block and the Baptist college at Brandon. For many years he pursued his calling alone, but later he formed a partnership with C. H. Walker, now of Hooper & Walker. About four years ago this partnership was dissolved. and since then Mr. McCowan had practically ceased active work. Mr. McCowan was a subscriber to The ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for over fifteen years, and a frequent visitor at the Winnipeg office,

