<doctype type="text">



The building is 58 feet high from the ground line to the 'top of main cornice, and from the cornice line to the base of lantern on the dome is 88 feet. In general the building occupies a plot of ground 427 feet by 290 feet, and from the ground to top of dome is 178 feet.



<article title=" CONSTRUCTION " author="">CONSTRUCTION.



The building is of strictly fireproof construction, having broad concrete footings and foundation walls up to the ground line. Above ground the exterior walls are faced with stone masonry, backed with brickwork, and furred on the inside faces with hollow porous terra cotta blocks for the purpose of providing air spaces to prevent dampness and to make a solid background for plastering work. The interior is of steel construction. consisting of steel columns supported on concrete footings and steel floor beams and roof trusses. All of this steel work will be fireproofed. using concrete, e, bricks, or terra cotta as is best suited for the work.

The steel work is a unit. in itself, and is not dependent on inferior partitions for support.

The walls of the rotunda and vaults are built of first-class brick masonry. All other interior walls are built of hollow porous terra cotta blocks and so designed that at. any time any partition or set of partitions on any floor may be removed without interfering with the construction of the building, and with a minimum interference with the business operation of any department.

The floors will be of reinforced steel concrete construction on protected steel beams, having marble and tile floor finishes.

<article title=" EXTERNAL APPEARANCE " author=""> EXTERNAL APPEARANCE.



The building in ifs general appearance will give one a feeling that it is a substantially built masonry structure, free from ostentatious carvings. and vet with its massive entrance columns and pavilions of the administrative and legislative wings breaking the plain wall surfaces, and the low dome. which surmounts 'the whole. will make one feel that a conscientious effort has been made to produce a simple pleasing structure, and vet one that is in keeping with a large monumental public building of this character.

At first glance one would think there were hut four storeys to this building. but in reality there is a subbasement. and an attic storey in addition to those disclosed at a glance at the front or north elevation. The sub-basement is below ground, as its name naturally implies, and the attic storey is on the roof above the cornice behind the balustrade.

<article title=" INTERNAL APPEARANCE " author="">INTERNAL APPEARANCE.



The general offices in the administrative wings will be plainly finished in plaster, and in keeping with dignified business methods. The main entrance rotunda dome and all public and private rooms in the legislative wing will be finished in marble and decorative plaster, and decorative oil or water color paintings.

USES OF BUILDING.



All floors of the administrative wing buildings will in general be used for departmental business and will be

wholly apart in their uses from those of the legislative wing, which will be mainly at the disposal of the legislative body. The museum in the basement, and the library and cafe on the first floor will be placed in the legislative wing.

ADMINISTRATIVE WINGS.



The administrative wings have their ends facing east on Seventh street and west towards Ninth street. They will be approached by neatly laid out paths and carriage drives. Two entrances are provided at each end of the wing buildings, one for the basement entrance at. the ground level, and the other up a flight of stone steps, which are forty-five feet wide at their start. and gradually (lose to a width of thirty feet. After passing through the broad entrance and vestibule 'of the wing buildings. we enter a central corridor flanked on one side with service elevator, and on the other side with service stairs, both of which are enclosed in separate Fireproof walls continuous for the full height of building Continuing along the corridor we pass the general offices of the departments. coming finally to the corridor surrounding the rotunda.



ENTRANCE.



As we approach the buildings via Eighth street, we cross a masonry viaduct. which will span Saskatchewan avenue. which street is below the ground line ·of the building at its crossing of Eighth street. After crossing the viaduct we come to a choice of two entrances, one of which is a basement entrance under the masonry steps or by going up the steps, which are flanked on either side with massive buttresses which have a clear opening of 60 feet between them, ornamented with moulded cap stones. and surmounted with four bronze lamps. Upon reaching the top of the main entrance steps. we pass between six Corinthian columns. each column being four feet in diameter and 40 feet in height crossing the entrance porch we come to the main entrance. which consists of three large circular top masonry openings, in which are placed ornamental bronze doors. Continuing on our way we pass through a spacious vestibule, and come to the corridor surrounding the rotunda.



 ROTUNDA



The corridor surrounding the rotunda is from ten to twelve feet wide In the two angles nearest the main entrance there will be niches for statuary, and the other two angles will contain public elevator, which run from the basement to the attic floor. This corridor will have plastered walls. and beamed ceilings in decorative plaster and marble.

The rotunda is 46 feet square. with a circular well at the centre for the purpose of lighting 'the basement storey having octagonal corners and extending upwards from the first floor to the third floor, where a gradual spring out is made from the octagon with circular pendentives, until a complete circle is arrived at, mid this circle is carried up with circular top windows

(concluded on page 26)

