<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

During the last month of 1907. the building trade in the city showed no great inclination towards improvement. Outside the city construction rapidly dropped off. but work is still progressing on some of the large buildings, the unusually open weather allowing this. in buildings where the roof is on, or other shelter provided. work is going on satisfactorily, although no architect or ho i 11cr has been heard to remark that he has too much to do.

Mr. Decarie of the statistics department at the City  Hall finds that 1907 showed a slight decrease in monies spent on buildings, but 1906 was certainly a " boom"

year in the city's history, Some people have been good enough to circulate the information that the recent financial stress has not had effect on the city. A visit to stone architects' offices, or the number of draughtsmen out of work, would be interesting for them to know also,

One of the largest contracts of the month was the one for the new Ann street school for the Protestant Board. The new school is to be erected on the site of the old one which was burnt last summer, and will accommodate 450 pupils, about the same number as formerly. The building is to be a thoroughly practical one with no attempt

At elaboration or	unnecessary ornamentation. Tat It will

consist of basement. ground and upper floor. Playrooms are provided in the former, the largest one of which will serve as a gymnasium and when necessary as an assembly hall. The building is to he heated on scientific principles, a feature being an apparatus for humidifying the atmosphere which is so Often disregarded. Inside fire-escapes are another feat lire of the school which is fireresisting throughout in construction. Pressed brick with limestone trimmings. are the exterior materials and the cost will be about $65,000. Messrs. Ed. & W.S. Maxwell are the architects,

The Bank of Commerce on St. James street is making considerable progress and. from the size of the granite blocks being used, and the general detail so far as it has gone, promise is given of a large and well proportioned  structure. 

The number of amusement places in the city is increasing quickly, but it is unfortunate that the results are generally bad. Must of them are of shocking design and covered with electric signs. whose beauty cannot be sal(] to equal their number.



The largest house of amusement - the Princess theatre, is nearing completion. Of course this building is not in the class already mentioned, but, judging from present appearances, promises to be an addition of sonic value. The building will scat 2300 people and it is expected that it will be opened in a few months. Messrs. Finley & Spence are the a architects.

	The examinations for admission to the Quebec Association of Architects and for registration have been fixed for the last five days of January at the rooms. No. 5  Beaver Hall Square and at the City Hall, Quebec, at nine o'clock in the forenoon of each day. One month's

STANDARD IDEAL PORCELAIN

ENAMELED WARE

Is of Canadian Manufacture and is fully the equal of any Foreign Product



The designs have been so selected as to meet the requirements of the man in moderate circumstances, as well as those of the rich man.

'Phe smooth finish of Standard Ideal Ware together with its durable construction ensures perfect sanitation as there are no joints, crevices or corners for dust, dirt or genus to collect.



Architects and Builders have no hesitation in recommending and guaranteeing Standard Ideal Ware.

 









We manufacture Bath Tubs, Sitz Baths, Shower

Baths, Lavatories, Urinal Ranges, Stop Hoppers,

Laundry Tubs, Sinks, Ctoset Ranges, Steamship

Supplies, Railway Car Supplies, Hospitat Apptiances,

Etc. Catalogue and all necessary information sent on

	application.

	The Standard			Company, Ltd.

		Head Offices and Factories	:	Port Hope, Ontario

Sales Offices and Sample Rooms Toronto, 50 Colborne Street:

Montreal, 128 West Craig Street; Winnipeg, 156 Lombard Street

