<doctype type="text">



<article title=" Montreal Business Blocks " author="">Montreal Business Blocks.

The accompanying illustration shows one of the recent additions to Montreal's business blocks. The building was erected by Messrs. Mark Fisher & Sons, and occupies the southwest corner of Craig street west and VicMark Fisher & Sans' Office Building, Montreal.



[ Alphonse Piche, Architect.] 





toria square, one of the best down-town sites. It is 130 feet 'high, this being the maximum height for the city, and is fireproof throughout, being also provided with a water curtain and sprinklers, and in all respects fulfills the requirements of the Board of Fire Underwriters. The ·base is entirely of granite, the upper storeys' being of Cleveland stone. The two entrances face Victoria Square and the vestibules and stairways are finished in a fine marble, the floors also being of marble mosaic. Two fast passenger elevators are provided as well as a fast freight elevator. The building is heated by steam throughout electric light and gas being used for illuminating purposes.

Mr. Alphonse Piche, 214 St. James street, is the architect

The new building of the Dominion Guarantee Company, Limited, is situated at the corner of St. James street and St. Michael's lane, and forms a handsome addition to the city's architecture. The building is in light sandstone, the windows being arranged so as to give the maximum of light.

The front part of the basement is occupied by messengers and safe deposit vaults. The ground floor is divided into a board room, manager's office and a large general office, while the first floor is let for offices On the top floor are the 'other various offices of the company, operating room, men's sitting room, etc.

The main entrance is on St. James street and leads to a handsome entrance hail, finished in marble and mosaic. The whole interior is finished in oak and is thoroughly fireproof in construction, 'having concrete floors and terra cotta partitions In all its departments this is one of the best equipped structures of its kind in



















































Dominion Guarantee Company's New Building, Montreal.



Ross & MacFarlane, Architects.





North America, and is the outcome of a careful study of this class of building on the part of Messrs Ross & MacFarlane, 'of Montreal, who were the architects.





The Board of Management of Knox College have decided to call for competing plans for the new building they contemplate erecting in this city It is understood that the competition will be confined to architects practising in Canada.

