<doctype type="text;ad">





























O

	N ACCOUNT of their sterling water proofing characteristics Barrett Specification Roofs are particularly satisfactory. It is to be questioned if any other material known to the roofing industry is as naturally inert under the influence of water and weather as Coal Tar Pitch, which is the principal constituent of Barrett Specification Roofs. In fact, these roofs are nothing more or less than the regular standard ''Coal Tar Pitch, Pelt and Gravel Roofs" laid according to a Specification calling for five plies of Tarred Felt with alternating- layers of Coal Tar Pitch and a top, or wearing surface of slag, gravel or tile.

The durability of these roofs is remarkable. In many instances they have lasted over 30 years without attention or repairs of any kind

the cost figuring down to one—quarter or one— fifth of a cent per square foot per year.

The general understanding of these facts is

responsible for the use of such roofs on a very large proportion of all the manufacturing plants of the country.

In addition to the low cost and long service there are special reasons why these roofs are used for covering certain buildings cotton mills, for instance, where the inside atmosphere has to be kept moist to keep the thread from becoming brittle, are unable to use metal roofs on account of the rapid corrosion and are almost invariably covered with roofs laid along the lines of the Barrett Specification.

Fumes and moisture, which attack metal roofs unless they are kept painted on both sides, have no effect on Coal Tar Pitch and Gravel.

Booklet covering the roofing subject and including The Barrett Specification in full mailed free on request.



BARRETT MANUFACTURING COMPANY

	New York	Chicago	Philadelphia	Cleveland

Allegheny	Kansas City	St. Louis	Boston

	Minneapolis	New Orleans Cincinnati London, Eng.

The Paterson Manufacturing., Co., Ltd.

Toronto	Montreal	Winnipeg

The Carrite Paterson Manufacturing Co., Ltd St. John, N B , Halifax, N.S.

