<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURAL INSTITUTE OF CANADA " author="">THE ARCHITECTURAL INSTITUTE OF CANADA



The Miscellaneous Private Bills Committee of the house of Commons have considered the bill to incorporate the Institute of Architects of Canada and in an amended form the bill will in all likelihood pass its third reading without opposition The corporate name will be the '' Architectural Institute of ( Canada." '7 The Institute was represented at the meeting of the Private Bills Committee by Messrs. Edmund Burke of Toronto, J. W. II. Watts of Ottawa and Alcide Chausse of Montreal. Following clause 1, in which thc petitioners are enumerated. the Act. now reads as follows:

2.	The head office of the Institute shall be in the city of Ottawa . or in such other place as is from time to time determined by a vole of two-thirds of the members of thc Institute.

3.	Time objects of the Institute shall be to facilitate the acquirement and interchange of professional knowledge among its members. amid more particularly to promote the a requisition of that species of knowledge which has special reference to the profession of architecture, and further to encourage investigation in connection with all branches and departments of knowledge connected with that profession and to promote the practice of architecture for the following purposes

(a)	To hold examinations;

(b)	To grant certificates of efficiency to its members;

(c)  To establish classes of membership; and

(d)	To determine the rights, privileges, terms and conditions of the said classes.

4.	The Institute shall be composed of all members in good standing of existing provincial incorporated societies and associations who shall apply for membership in the Institute within one year after the passing of this Act, and of any other persons of whose qualifications and fitness the council of the Institute approves and all members of the Institute shall pay the admission and subscriptions fees provided for by the by-laws of the Institute.

(2)	The council may also admit to membership any member in good standing of any Canadian n, British or foreign association of architects upon such member presenting his credentials and paying tile admission and subscription fees provided for by the by-laws of the Institute

5.	No member of the Institute shall be a building contractor or manufacturer, or a dealer in building materials or supplies, nor be in partnership with any building contractor or manufacturer or dealer in building materials or supplies.

6.	The Institute may make regulations and by-laws for its direction and management and also such rules as are deemed necessary for tile maintenance of tile honor and dignity of the profession of architecture.

(2)	The Institute may, by by-law, make regulations governing the admission a mid examination of candidates for membership in tile Institute

7.	The first twenty persons named in section 1 of this Act shall be the first council of the Institute.

(2)	A meeting of the council shall be held within six months after the passing (If this Act, for organization, the making of by-laws, the election of officers and the transaction of any other business that may arise.

(3)	The first general meeting of the Institute shall be held during the year one thousand nine hundred and eight., in the city of Ottawa. at such time and upon such notice as the council decides, for the election of officers and members of the council, the adoption of by—laws and time transaction of the business of the Institute.

(4 Subsequent general meetings shall be held as the by-laws of tile Institute provide, hut runt less than once. in each year, at the place decided on at a previous general meeting and at such time and upon such notice as the council decides.

8.	Time council shall appoint a board of examiners of not less than seven persons, resident in Canada, to examine candidates for admission to membership in the institute.

(2)	Two members of time board shall be qualified and competent to examine all candidates in French or in English at the option of the candidate

(3)	Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum.

(4)	The boar(l shall meet semi-annually, at the time and place decided upon by the council.

9.	The Institute may acquire and mold such real property as is necessary to carry out its objects provided that the total value of such property held at any time for the actual use of the Institute shall not exceed two hundred thousand dollars.

10.	The Institute may affiliate with 'any society or association. of architects having objects similar to those of the Institute

11.	If any person ceases, for any cause to lie a member (If the Institute lie shall not have any interest in or claim against the funds or property of the Institute.

12.	The Institute  may establish branches , which shall he known as ''Chapters of time Institute (If Architects of Canada."

13.	Nothing in this Act shall lie deemed to encroach upon the rights and privileges conferred upon any association of architects having a charter from the legislature of any province of Canada.







<article title=" Cleaning Paper on Ceilings " author="">Cleaning Paper on Ceilings.

While there are some preparations for cleaning wall paper on the market, they are not always readily obtainable in every locality. The simplest way to clean wall or ceiling paper is to make bag of coarse flannel. in which tie or sew up two quarts of wheat bran, rubbing the same over the paper briskly, all in one direction taking care not to miss a single spot. Before beginning to rub, however, the walls or ceiling must be carefully dusted.

