<doctype type="text">



that of dwellings situated in a country where the natural features are on a lesser scale.

The house is built of wood covered with cedar shingles that were left to weather naturally. The foundation is of field stone, and the building is provided with a large basement, floored with cement and containing a workshop with an open fireplace, a wine room, store room, laundry, Chinaman's room and bathroom, and a furnace and coal room.

The first floor is so planned that the rooms are grouped around a large central hall, which runs to the top of the second storey. The vestibule is entered from a porch, which is recessed from the veranda. at the front of The house and has an opening almost opposite the entrance

ing extends only to the height of the first storey, the upper portion being in plaster, which is divided into panels with broad stiles of the same wood. The ceiling is beamed and a particularly interesting structural feature is seen in the staircase and the gallery to which it leads and which encloses three sides of the hail. There is' a large chimney-piece of brick, with an ample fireplace in which are Craftsman and irons The furniture is made of oak, with leather cushions and consists chiefly of large comfortable settees and ample arm chairs. The Irish rugs are in green and brown with a Shamrock border. Part of the furniture is 'Craftsman and the rest was designed by Mr. M. II. Baillie Scott and made by Mr. John P. White, of Bedford, England.





























































In the large Central Hall there is a brick fireplace, and above on three sides a gallery leading to

bedrooms. All the wood-work is of Douglas Fir stained brown.



door, into the drawing room. This 'large room occupies the corner of the building, and opens upon a square veranda which serves in summer for an outdoor living room. The entire end of the vestibule is lighted by a row of windows that look out upon the veranda, and the dining room windows look out in like manner upon the entrance porch. Both drawing room and dining room have deep recessed windows, and the same device used in the kitchen and the pantry adds much to the space and convenience in both these rooms.

The vestibule and large central hall are paneled and beamed with Douglas fir, stained brown with what the architect, calls a water stain. The high walls of the hail are made doubly interesting by the fact that this panel-

The drawing room, in which purely English taste is shown, has the familiar plastered walls and white enameled woodwork, with furniture of polished mahogany, upholstered in green tapestry. The rugs, cushions and lighting fixtures were made to harmonize, the prevailing colors being green and mauve. All these furnishings were designed by Mr. Baillie Scott and made by Mr. White, and the delicate color scheme and distinctly English style forms a pleasant contrast to the rich toned woods and plain, massive furnishings of the other rooms.

The dining room is paneled with unstained cedar, and is very interesting in its construction. The wall paneling extends to the height of the frieze, which is of plain

