<doctype type="text">

<article title=" DEER LODGE, SILVER HEIGHTS, WINNIPEG " author="">DEER LODGE, SILVER HEIGHTS, WINNIPEG

PRATT & Ross, ARCHITECTS, WINNIPEG. 



The new Deer Lodge Hotcl is one of the most complete, luxurious anci up-to-date road houses on the continent. Built on tlie exact spot where stood its predecessor, it occupies one of the finest sites in suburban Winnipeg.

The building is in early English style of architecture.

clapboarded to the first storey and then beam and ti plaster work with pebble-dash plast ering on wire lath. Tlie roof is shingled anti stained a tile red. The exierior woodwork is painted white with green trim and the beams stained dark oak. Wide verandahs run round the front and both ends of the building The rotunda. dining room and bar room have beamed ceilings, while all the main rooms are paneled in British Columbia fir stained a dark oak color, A rich red flooring, made by the Ajax Company, of Winnipeg. is used in all the above rooms, whilc a light grey flooring with green border is hi id in the kitchen and lavatories. The latter have a dado of tile and are finished above that in Keen's cement laid off in Courses.

and F. H. Mills, of the A. F. Banfield establishment, who looked after the interior finishing and furnishing To the west is a well appointed office with a hell system. to the south is the entrance to the north is the stairway lea ding to the upper floors. while to the east is a Dutch fireplace. It is one of those old-fashioned open grates lintler a solid stone structure which reaches to the ceiling and is made of boulders taken from the bed of tlie Assini— boine river a nd chipped into shape. Its fixings. andirons and equipments are of haminered iron. which ale appropriate in their solidity and graceful angles. Brilliantly lighted by electric lamps which shine from fixtures specially made for the hotel, the room is a work of art and one of the finest of its kind in the country. Along [lie top of the pa neli ng are placed bric—a—brac anil rare prices of chinaware that lend a finishing touch to the colonial  mural decorations. 

The dining room. measuring 52 by 26 feet, is furnished witll quarter-cut oak and hung with mohair and champagne colored silks. Electric lights, placed high,





































Entering the south portal the visitor steps into a broad hallway off wh jell doors open into t he rise roon a iid the blue room, two pretty ladies' parlors. The rose loom is finished in pink rose tints, hung tastefully with silk and decorated with some very line art productions representing scenes of the haleyon day s of Venice mid Rome, The blue 100111 is similarly treated with a variation ill the color scheme.

The entire interior is laid out ill mission style and fura ished with weathered oak furn iture, each piece of which has been specially selected for an appropriate lace in the buil ding. The free and eaSY atmosphere of the road house has not been sacrificed in making tlic interior beau tiful. hut a maximum of elega nce is atta in ed wilile tile dominant note of the entire furnishing and decorative scheme is artistic in the extreme.

The rotunda. a fine roomy, high roofed hall. is a work that reflects great credit to its designers, Mr. Chadwick 

Perspective -—Deer Lodge Hotel.



diffuse a pleasing illumination on tlic spotless linen and he height new cutlery. The kitchen is placed to t he rear of it and no expense has been spared to make the culinary department is complete as possible.

on the first floor is a music room . A mission style piano, made expressly fur tlle hotel front [lie design of an old Jesuit desk, is a mong the features, while the floor is laid with expensive Turkish rugs. Green and gold are the prevailing colors. The window hangings are of tapestry, lined with smoked silk. Opposive the music room is a reception room finished in green. On every floor there are ladies cloak rooms, toilet rooms and places for writ

A ballroom. 56 by 26 feet. is placid in [lie west wing a hove the dining room and is finished in the same artistic manner as the rest of the house. The hotel contains 74 rooms in all. Two small private dining rooms fir exclusive parties are placed on the main floor, handy

