<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Why Not Patronize Canadian Architects?" author="">Why Not Patronize Canadian Architects?

From a patriotic reader signing himself Canuck the following letter has been received:

''The following items appear in the issue of the N. Y. Engineering News of March 19th:

Warren & Wetmore 3 East 33rd street (New York), have completed plans for a 3-story railroad station to be built at Winnipeg, Man., for the Canadian Northern and the Grand Trunk Railways. The building will lie constructed of brick and stone. Bids will be received about April 1.

Vancouver, B.C.—We are officially advised that the contract for the construction of the substructure and temporary bridge over False Creek was awarded on March 9 by the city to Waddell & Harrison, Kansas City, Mo. N. A. Clement is City Engineer. I would like to know if we have any architects or

engineers in Canada capable of doing this work? Also whether customs duties were collected on the plans ? It so. how much? You might give Lis the tariff regulations on this.

The tariff regulations referring to this matter are as follows:

Competitive plans brought in for inspection may be entered as for warehouse and inspected under customs supervision subject to payment of duty within sixty days unless then rejected and ex-warehoused for exportation.

Regarding building clause in general the regulations are as follows

Building plans, drawings and blue prints, 25 tier cent. Tariff Item 180.

Specifications free, as manuscript, when writ tea or typewritten. Item 177.

Special plans of building or blue prints as substitutes therefore, are to be valued for duty at the charge usually  made by the architect for the drawings, without the specifications. This charge may be fixed for duty purposes at one per cent of the estimated cost of file building to be erected.

Detailed drawings, or blue prints as substitutes therefore, if imported separately, to be appraised at a valuation of one per cent. of the estimated cost of such detail.

When the building is estimated to cost less than $10,-000, the plans or blue prints may be appraised at tile usual charges for furnishing same, according to the special circumstances in each case, irrespective of the ruling of the one per cent.

Blue prints or copies of building plans may be admitted at the cost of production when duty has once been paid on the original under tile above regulations upon proof of such payment to the satisfaction of the collector at the port of entry.



<article title=" Beautiful Buildings at Shepherds Bush " author="">

Beautiful Buildings at Shepherds Bush.

The buildings for the Franco-British Exhibition at Shepherd's Bush already make an imposing white city, according to reports from the old country. The work is under the direction of Mr. Imre Kiralfy, who in an incredibly short time has called into being some twenty palaces, which now cover time 140 acres of exhibition ground, and are almost ready for the exhibits to be put into them. The Mail and Empire of Toronto, in a special dispatch on the subject, says:

The first sod was cut less than fifteen months ago. Then the place was a desert, a gloomy stretch of mud and rank grass. Now it is a stately town, with wide

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



roads and pleasant gardens and a broad canal meandering through it, with fine buildings at every turn, each vista revealing fresh beauties, and every promise of being ready for the public to gaze upon its wonders at the beginning of May.

It is bard to believe when you see the palaces glitter in the sunlight that they are not solid construction of stone. The plaster worn is marvelous. and all the details, as well as the broad outlines of design, are really in excellent taste. It reminds one now of the Chicago World's Fair, now of the Paris Exhibition. Certainly, nothing so good of its kind has ever been seen in England before.

The Court of honor will be one of the chief admiration spots for the crowds which will throng the place during the summer months. Around an immense basin fed by tile canal are vast halls of Oriental aspect. Their cupolas and minarets form a delicate fretted pattern against the sky. Their dignified solidity and restful architecture breathe an ageless majesty and calm. At one end a cascade of water will ripple down over crystal steps illuminated from beneath with changing colors like some gigantic kaleidoscope. Especially forward are the Colonial Palaces, in which the King, who is to open the Exhibition, takes a particular interest.



<article title=" Many Buildings Will be Needed " author="">

Many Buildings Will be Needed.

Building operations in the West should be stimulated this summer by the demands of the new settlers coming in from the United States. An increase of sixty-one per cent, in the immigration of Americans to Canada took

place during the months of January and February of this year, as compared with 1907. The success which has attended tile efforts (if other farmers from the Republic who have located in the Dominion within the past few years has been responsible for the larger influx, and has been sufficient to offset the effects of all the stories set. afloat, by interested parties who have desired to discredit the Canadian West.

A dispatch from St. Paid, Minn., says: The volume of traffic from the United States into Canada at present has astonished even those railway officials who had expected a revival of the ''American invasion.'' The rush northward is out of all proportion to the elaborate plans made by the roads with branches into British territory to handle the spring rush. On the ''Soo'' line alone five special trains, loaded with American home seekers and their household goods, and even stock, arrived for trans-shipment over that road into Canada. Part of this traffic will be moved via Winnipeg and the balance through Portal.

The Chicago Great Western has brought a ten-car train in from Iowa, The Burlington, two from Nebraska and one from Iowa, and the Rock Island one from Kansas and Oklahoma, The destinations of these families are said to be Northern Saskatchewan and Alberta. The Battleford and Prince Albert districts in Saskatchewan are largely favored, lout ''anything north of the line" seems to be the cry. A dispatch from North Portal says: All trains arriving from the south are heavily loaded with settlers and landseekers; they are bound for all parts of Saskatchewan and Alberta, and are a good class of settlers. A number of steam plowing outfits are coining in daily.





Plans are being prepared for the erection of a grand stand on the Plains of Abraham, Quebec, for the pageant production. The stand will be built to seat between 15,000 and 20,000 people.

