<doctype type="text">



added up, then we have the compilation of a ''legitimate tender'' which mar be relied upon. The result will he that very little disparity will be shown in the amounts of the priced tenders, that should give satisfaction to both owner and contractor.

But competition is not confined to builders and contractors. Architects 'also come in for a fair 'share of competition, and it has been frequently discussed whether timer it is beneficial or not to the advancement 'of the profession of architecture in the highest sense and whether some means may not lie adopted whereby to keep it within proper channels to produce the best results. This is a very' comprehensive subject, of which we could here only touch the fringe Architectural competition when run on right lines is not only justifiable but commendable In other cases it is detrimental to the interests of all concerned, It may be noted here however, that it is chiefly large and special buildings of a public character where architectural competition is called into requisition. When the professional architect has experience in the class of building proposed to be erected, lie generally runs the best chance of being on the list of those invited to compete. But the qualifications required in any high class structural arrangement, or artistic design, are frequently so difficult to obtain within a limited territory that it 'is essential to request several architects of repute from various centres to compete in producing plans and designs that shall meet all the requirements of the case. It appears that in order to attain the acme of accomplishment in any very elaborate and extensive public building two or three ''specialists'' should be employed It is sometimes advocated that a special architect should be employed for the internal structural arrangements of the plans, and another "special" architect to carry out the ''design

a adopted and the decorative arrangements	of the building. Again, ill special ''engineering'' work required, frequently' the services of a competent engineer are called into operation, so that the best skill in 'such construction may be obtained. There are several rules which might he formulated in connection with architectural competitions, but we would here state those recommended by a committee of the American Institute of Architects



(a)	Limited to a certain number of invited architects.

(b)	Open to all architects.

(c)	Mixed; certain architects being invited, but other architects being at liberty to bake part.

Architectural	competitions have the advantage of opening up avenues of opportunity to the young aspiring a architect of ability whereby his genius may be discovered, and so establish a place for him in the ranks of the ''select." 'When a young architect has experience

in any particular class of work, it is fortunate for him that lie has such an opportunity of displaying his ability. And it. is only by recruiting the best from the ranks of our younger members that the status of the  architectural profession can he maintained.





M

UCH discussion has been indulged in of late in architectural circles, and in the journals connected with tile profession, on the subject of registration. Whatever may be the minor qualifications of the applicant for membership into any Institute of Architects. the most important should he that of	education



and experience in his profession The facilities afforded our young students in architecture are not. altogether what might be desired, vet they' are quite adequate for the initial stages of their career, and by the institution

of travelling g scholarships the artistic temperament	 may

be fostered and developed that shall he productive of much good work and believe its impress on the architecture of our large cities and towns throughout the Dominion. It seems a wise principle that the rules for admission to any body of architects should by no means be upon ''hard and fast lines.'' Examinations are not always the criterion of a man's artistic genius. although they may he of his scientific and practical knowledge. Coining into close and vital touch with time student or professional architect who is desirous of membership, and knowing by actual experience his workmanship and ability, would tend more to promote the status of an Institute than all the rules of examination which might be formulated. It is a good idea to 'have a national Institute. such as now constituted in the Institute of Archtiects of Canada . whereby everything pertaining to the advancement of architecture in its scientific. practical and artistic relationships may be discussed. There us no doubt that the fact of being a member will carry' weight of some importance in the selection of an architect for any special undertaking. Yet it must be conceded that outside the pale of membership there may be professional services acquired that would meet the requirements of those concerned. It doubtless will be considered an honor to become a member of the Institute by every aspiring young architectural student and should be an incentive to his ambition, urging him to

persevere in his studies, and be diligent and careful in even- stage of his architectural career. The true basis upon which every Institute or body of architects should be constituted is by means of co-operation to extend the usefulness and promote the interests of all that pertain to the development and excellence of the profession. A feeling of heartfelt sympathy would then exist between those who au-c not members and those who have time privilege of membership And this kindred feeling	would



be productive of much good, and bind d all the members of the profession in pursuing one grand 'object, viz., the attainment of the highest excellence in a architectural achievement, as evidenced in the buildings erected through-out the provinces of our vast Dominion.

