<doctype type="text">

<article title=" The Metropolitan Parsonage, Toronto " author="">

The Metropolitan Parsonage, Toronto.

A good example of parsonage architecture is afforded by the building recently constructed for the Metropolitan Methodist church, Toronto, at the southeast corner of Bond and Shuter streets. The building was designed by Messrs. Sproatt & Rolph of Toronto, an(l was given by Mr. C. D. Massey who also endowed the parsonage with an annual appropriation to be used for the maintenance of the establishment, in addition to the minister's salary, The architects in this instance were given one of the most unique opportunities that has ever fallen to the lot. of any member of their profession. They were given carte blanche within the limits of the appropriation, to build, decorate and supply absolutely every thing needed for the building of the parsonage, and its equipment as a home. They began at the basement with lie laundry and went right through the house, supplying every necessary furnishing for every room, including carpets, chairs, tables, bedroom furniture and even linen and towels. They chose the pictures for the walls and planned every interior decoration. The building is a memorial to the late Mrs. C. D. Massey.

All the rooms on the main floor have been trimmed or panelled in fumed oak, and the bedrooms in white oak. A feature of the house is that it has been furnished throughout with old mahogany furniture which the architects have picked up from time to time as the opportunity occurred.

The hall has been treated in the shape of a long corridor with the ceiling vaulted and the stairs leading off from the left. The spandrill of the stairway is treated in the form of an old Gothic screen with Gothic carved heads and architraves. On the first landing a memorial window has been put in, which is considered perhaps one of the best pieces of such work that has been executed in I his country. It does great credit to the designer, Mr. R. McCausland An illustration of the window is published in this issue. The same treatment has been carried out in the tipper hail as in the lower. In the library and sitting room on the first floor which have been treated in oak. the design is perhaps rather severe, with the fireplace cut out of white stone and the hearth stone of the same material

The ground floor plan shows that the design is purely and simply that of a parsonage. This is the reason for the reception room and library being placed as they are. The plan is on an exceptionally large scale, as the minister in this particular instance is called upon to do a great amount of entertaining. The dining room is finish-







Reports from Hamilton give promise of a fairly active building season. A contractor with decided opinions when interviewed a few days ago said: "I think that the people are getting over their hypercritical sensitiveness and are beginning to come out of their shells once more. As a matter of fact, now is the time for a man who has the money, to build a house, either for himself or speculation. People are like sheep, to some extent. If times are good. and everyone builds the man who thinks about it is encouraged to act. When building falls off the timid one goes to sleep. The way the building permits have been issuing lately is one of the best signs of the month.

''For instance, close to $50,000 worth of permits have been issued in the last week. This is dwelling work and it means that the building fraternity of the city will have to get busy very soon. The prospects for the season are certainly encouraging. The western crops promise to be good, and this has a tremend- us effect on the minds

Metropolitan Parsonage—Main Entrance.



ed in oak. The walls are treated in old tapestry effect. and the furniture is of good old English design. the whole affording a most harmonious effect.

The electric fixtures have had perhaps more thought and time spent upon them; so as to suit their individual purposes in the design, than is usually the ease in the most elaborate houses. The building is of grey Credit Valley stone trimmed with Bedford buff lime stone. The roof is covered with green slate. What little woodwork appears upon the exterior has been treated in colors to match the stone work.







of Canadian people'' Other business men say that everything is picking up wonderfully. The building trade has been about the slowest so far, but it is feeling the stimulus that is forcing everything into its normal busy condition.





<article title=" Hamilton Assessment on Increase " author="">Hamilton Assessment on Increase.

Assessment Commissioner Macleod 'of Hamilton has announced that there will be a general increase this year in assessment values. He has been going into the matter carefully since his appointment a year ago, and he has conic to the conclusion that the time is opportune for an increase. As compared with other cities, Hamilton 's real estate assessment, he says, is far below what it should be. He regards the present depression as being only temporary, arid in spite of it says there was no falling off in prices of real estate.

