<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BUILDING WINDOW FRAMES " author="Stevenson, W. C. A.">BUILDING WINDOW FRAMES

By W. C A STEVENSON.



The making of an ordinary window frame is a very simple piece of work, but when it is desired to build a window frame and lay out the opening in the building to receive it so as to make a perfectly windproof job, it will require a little extra skill and more accurate calculation on the part of the workman. It is too often thc ease that not enough care has been taken with the making and setting of the frames. In new houses I have seen wind enough conic in around the window's to blow out a lighted match. This is a condition for which there is no excuse, and is due to pure carelessness on the part of the workman Or the I)arty in charge. The details shown herewith are designed for a roughcast or frame building boards 3-4 inch back from the edge of the opening on the sides and top. the opening is ready to receive the frame. The blind stop on head need be only 2 1-2 inches wide, as there does not require to be a space left for weights on top (see head section).

Second the sub-sill has a corner cut out of it to allow it to drop over the opening instead of resting on top. thereby breaking the joint, as seen at sill section. The opening would be 11 3-4 incites higher than the glass, made up as follows: Sills 3 1-4 inches. 7 inches of wood on sash, 1 1-2 inches frame head and space. The backhand should not be put on until after the frame has been set into the building, as by this method on can get good



























































ing, and if carefully followed will produce a good tight job.

The special features of this frame are: First, the blind stops, instead of being the ordinary 7-8 inch by 1 1-2 inch. are 7-8 inch 'by 4 1-2 inch, and are allowed to meet the sheathing boards on the centre of the wall stud, as seen in the box section. Care must he taken to frame the opening in the building the exact width, which is 11 inches wider than the width of the glass, made up thus:

4 inches for wood on sash, 2 inches for pulley stiles, and

5 inches for boxes for weights. The opening must also be made perfectly plumb. Then, by holding the sheath-

	Head Section	Box Section	Sill Section





nailing through the blind stop into the wall stud, as seen at the box section; then the back-band can be put around, thus making another break in the joint. The piece of back-band across the head would be given a slight pitch to form a drip over 'the head of frame, or, which would be still better. put a piece of galvanized iron over the top and allow it to extend up, say 2 inches. behind the strapping. This will prevent any water from working in behind the frame.



Third. the bottom sash and the stool on the inside of window are beveled to fit. together, as will he seen at the box section. This makes a perfectly tight joint, and the moment the sash is lifted it frees itself.