<doctype type="colophonp;text">The Canadian



Architect Builder

A Journal of

Constructive and Decorative Art

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY



HUGH C. MACLEAN, LIMITED

TORONTO, CANADA.

HEAD OFFICE -	Confederation Life Building, TORONTO Telephone Main 2362



MONTREAL - Telephone Main 2299. B34 Board of Trade

D. BURNSIDE, Representative

WINNIPEG	-	-	-	Telephone 224. 330 Smith St.

ROLAND F. HILL, Representative

VANCOUVER	-	-	Telephone 2248. 615 Hastings St.

GEO. A. GALL, Representative



SURSCRTPTION RATES

Canada and Great Britain - - $2.00

	United States and Foreign	-	2.50

Toronto	FEBRUARY, 1908	Montreal







A

 SENSATION is engrossing London architectural circles. A young draughtsman, named Ralph Knott, has secured first prize for having submitted the best design for the London County Council's proposed £1,000,000 palace in that city. Mr. Knott, from being the humble assistant in the office of Sir Aston Webb, has attained a reputation which has made him the envy of The profession throughout the United Kingdom. The competition was open to the world. No possibility existed of discrimination 'against unknown talent. All stood an equal chance. The judges were men little likely to make a mistake in their decision: Mr. Norman Shaw, R.A.; Mr. W. E. Riley, F.R.I.B.A., and Sir Aston Webb, R.A., Mr. Knott's employer. These gentlemen, after careful consultation, placed the work of an unknown and obscure draughtsman above that of such men as Mr.

J.	Beicher, A.R.A., and president of the Royal Institute of British Architects, who with six other associates and eleven fellows of the same institution, vied for the £40,-000 prize, the reward of the successful competitor.

It may be remembered that at the inauguration of the competition for the Hall of the London County Council there was much discussion and adverse criticism, and no little animadversion. Nevertheless, the Royal Institute on the whole subscribed to the conditions laid down. Now that obscurity has eclipsed fame there will doubtless be further discussion of the desirability of competitions in general. There always has been and probably always will be a strongly antagonistic feeling toward the principle of selecting an architect by means of open competition. Nevertheless. it must be admitted that the art of architecture has made considerable progress during the past two or three decades, a fact which may be attributed in no small degree to the popularity of competitions of

one kind or another. The fact that open competition has been the rule is indicative of their value for this purpose and has given rise to the belief that in spite of certain drawbacks, open competitions have made for the improvement of the profession. Mr. Knott's success shows that the younger men are doing their share to advance the profession. principally through

opportunities afforded		them by competitions. It is not

too much to say that some of our most distinguished architects might have been left in obscurity had it not been that they were able to make known their genius by this means.

	A

LTHOUGH	architectural competitions are judged



mainly upon the plans submitted, and very properly so. nevertheless when the issue is in doubt the result may depend eventually upon the accompanying report. It is. consequently. an important document and, while inexperienced competitors are inclined to give comparatively little attention to this matter, leaving it of the last moment to be rushed off by an incompetent typewriter,

those who really go to win and who depend for a considerable proportion of their daily livelihood upon successful competitive work. are particularly careful of their reports. They adopt the precaution of keeping the report in mind from the outset. making notes from time to time of important points which they think should be included in it. altering. re-arranging them and reducing their bulk as circumstances seem to warrant. They realize that an entirely erroneous impression may be gained from the general scheme by a poorly written or hardly  arranged report, while a carefully thought out description will so forcibly draw attention to advantageous points as to bring them prominently before the assessors so that. they may give them due weight—it being quite conceivable that some particularly advantageous point of construction might escape a n assessor, however. discriminating he might be

The primary consideration is therefore perspicuity Like most writings of the character of an essay, points out ''The Building News.'' in a recent article upon this subject. there should be proper separation into paragraphs. preferably under definite headings, the general principle being followed of having. at any rate, introduction, development and conclusion. In essay writing these several parts are merely kept in mind but in reports the introduction of marginal notes. such as those used in specification writing, to denote the contents of each paragraph becomes essential, as well as the grouping of the paragraphs under definite heads. Nothing. it is said, is more fall to a report than illiteracy whether it be shown by bad grammar or faulty construction and punctuation. It irritates the assessor if he be a scholarly, and confuses him if he be an unscholarly, man, occasionally even leading to Wrong interpretation of thc intended meaning.

