<doctype type="text">

ful and often works at inking in plans. In certain schools in America, every stroke of the pen must be the work of the author; in the Ecole students may render assistance to one another, the result being that they spend all the time they can spare in developing to the fullest extent their conception, and if they are behind hand the men in the second class help those of the first to complete their drawings; this being possible, as the problems of the first class arc not handed in at the same time as those of the second class. Although the draught manship at the Ecole is of a very high standard, it is never considered as being of equal importance with the conception and development of the design. The exhibitions, in a large hail at the Ecole, exert a powerful influence; they get a man out of a rut, stimulate his imagination and broaden his point of view. The effect of many solutions of a problem all intelligently worked out cannot be other than broadly educative. The statement is sometimes made that the Ecole training has a tendency to kill the individuality of a man. I fail to see why it should; if a student's work is eccentric and not logical he certainly requires the discipline which a rational system of education will impose. If, on the other hand, 'he possesses an individual and open mind, the effort of the patron is always towards fostering and developing his personality.

The course in design is divided into two c1asses. A man in the second class is concerned with less important problems than are given to the men in the first class. Mentions are given for excellence in planning and design as well as for the other subjects, and, when a man has obtained a certain number of these, he graduates into the upper class. the diploma of the school is awarded to a man who submits a thesis after all mentions required have been gained. The thesis is a problem of the student's own selection and must be developed not only in the artistic sense but practical details of construction mathematically figured out must be furnished and an oral examination passed thereon. The diploma drawings may be produced at any time during the life of the applicant.

No description of tile benefits of the Ecole is complete which leaves out the inspiring effect of living in Paris. I doubt if in any other city such a high level of artistic culture is apparent, and, where there can be found such a remarkable series of buildings, illustrating architectural masterpieces, extending from mediaeval times to our own. The course at the school should be frequently interrupted and excursions made to tile surrounding provinces, where fresh impressions will be received from the monuments of a glorious past.

I remember well some advice which Professor Despradelles of thc Massachusetts Institute of Technology gave a class of students in the Boston Architectural Club. He was talking to us about the study of old work, and the gist of his remarks was, that the important thing to do was to put one's self in a receptive frame of mind and to feel the beauties of a building; the reasons why it was constructed in such a way, the intention of

the designer, and the real inner meaning of the structure—not to rely on the sketch book and camera, but impress these realities on the brain, and not feel hurried. These are not his actual words, but my remembrance of his remarks. Just how much importance there should be attached to the careful measuring of buildings is a debatable point. While believing in the usefulness of this kind of work on exceptional occasions, I am not in favor of it as a common practice. In any case it is best to first. of all become thoroughly imbued with tile meaning of a structure before getting out the tape line or the camera. If work is to be measured, I think that the drawings should be washed and the shadows cast, even if in the simplest manner. By these means we are able to express the third dimension and to appreciate thc massing and color qualities. I think draughtsmen should frequently design with a six B pencil and a few pots of color, as a corrective to the T square and hard pencil polish usually sought after. How often we are confronted with buildings in which the use of color and material is out of value and disagreeably spotty.

Influence of L'Ecole ON DOMESTIC Architecture.

Before finishing my direct references to the Ecole des Beaux Arts, I wish to mention the influence of the teachings on domestic architecture and on small problems in design. French domestic work, leaving out the residential flats and important houses, is not up to the standard which we demand, and the French admit that the English and American work is superior; for this we cannot blame the theory of the system, but may reasonably say that our superiority is due to the place which the home occupies in the life of the Anglo-Saxon. Our pleasures and our social life in reality revolve around the home. The great number of houses put up in late years has evolved a standard of excellence which we strive to maintain. Frenchmen who have lived in this country are enthusiastic over our small houses and their many conveniences. That the graduate of the Ecole can do good domestic work is proven in American practice. As to the ability of the school man to design small work, an examination of the streets and parks of Paris will decide the question in the affirmative.

In considering other systems which are a factor in architectural education I would mention the following, which are active in American

1st. The Colleges.

2nd. The Beaux Arts Society.

	3rd. The Architectural	Clubs.

4th. The Schools of Correspondence.

<article title=" AMERICAN ARCHITECTURAL Courses " author="">AMERICAN ARCHITECTURAL Courses.

Most of the college courses have been developed on lines which had their roots in the French Ecole, but they are being modified almost yearly as wisdom dictates. At Columbia College they have gone in for the atelier system, one being in the school building, and two in New York City under Mr. McKim and Mr. Hastings. Professor Hamlin is authority for the statement that ''the results have vindicated the departure.'' One tendency noticeable is that the requirements for entrance have

