<doctype type="text">VOLUME II   Issue 1	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



general one. That it obtains to too great an extent, however, we have had ample opportunity of knowing. We could name instances in this city, recently, where appliances of American manufacture have been specified, when a Canadian article of equal merit might have been obtained without even going beyond the boundaries of Toronto. Such conduct is unpatriotic in the extreme, and deserving of the severest censure. There are many lines of manufactured goods used in modern building construction which are not yet produced in Canada, and which must be obtained elsewhere. In all cases, however, where materials of Canadian manufacture can be obtained approaching nearly in quality foreign goods, preference should be given them. In this way we should help to build our country and each other up. Encouragement would be given for the establishment of new lines of manufactures, and for the further perfecting and development of those which already exist. Adapting the words of the poet to the case

'Let us to ourselves be true, And it follows as the day the night We cannot then be false to any man."





ONE of our illustrations is a perspective view of the design  submitted by Messrs. <firm>Darling & Curry</firm>, of this city, for the proposed <building>Departmental and Legislative buildings </building>for this province, which are now being erected in the Queen's Park according to the design prepared by Mr. <person>Richard A. Waite</person>, of Buffalo N. Y. In the first competition, which was open to the world, the design of Messrs. Darling & Curry was awarded first position in merit, although the experts did not consider that they were entitled to any of the premium because they had exceeded the limits of cost. There were a number of plans submitted from the States, but none were fortunate enough to obtain mention. As the result of a second competition, it was decided to have the first premiated design and the above design submitted to tender, to settle the matter of relative cost. Working drawings, details and specifications were prepared, and tenders received. The lowest tender for Messrs. <firm>Gordon & Helliwell's</firm> design—the premiated one—was $542,000; and for Messrs. Darling & Curry's design, $612,000. The Government decided not to proceed with the erection of the building as the figures were too high, although they have since commenced the erection of a building which will cost not less than $2,000,000



There was nothing more done until the Government obtained a vote of $750,000 for these buildings. They then decided to submit the two designs to an expert, and then decide their relative merits. The expert chosen was Mr. R. A. Waite, of Buffalo, who, while he did not decide in a manner to meet with the approval of the competitors, seems to have met the wishes of the Government, and thus gained for himself most liberal treatment, as he eventually secured the commission, and, to all intents and purposes, full permission to expend any sum reasonable or unreasonable. No one has yet been able to discover the nature of his reports on the two Canadian designs. The Government has treated them as confidential even to refusing to allow the competitors to see them. When the Commissioner of Public Works was asked in the House to bring down Mr. Waite's reports on the Canadian designs, he refused, on the plea that he had not the permission of the authors of these designs. When the competitors asked him for the reports, he gave an entirely different reason, as one may easily understand. However, the reports cannot be seen, and consequently no one is able to judge as to their character.



There is another side of this question which is of considerable importance to the people, and that is. what description of building is the Province really getting in its new Legislative and Departmental Buildings? If the members of the Ontario Government know, they are the only persons who do, and we have our doubts as to their knowledge of the matter. The Canadian architects were held down to a definite expenditure, and even obliged to have the entire work ready for tender, so that the full expenditure would be known before the work was commenced. But when the work is entrusted to a citizen of another

country, all carefulness as to expenditure ceases. Only one branch of the work was submitted to tender, and even when that exceeds the appropriation for the entire building, a contract was entered into, and the Province was committed to the erection of the building, no matter what it may cost. A lithographic print of the buildings as they are being erected has been published, and from that source ideas may be gained of what the building will look like when completed. We will allow our readers to judge as to which is the better design of the two. That one of them is a most careful; studied piece of artistic work, as compared with the other, will be admitted. We will allow those who can see any merit in the inferior design to point out where the merit consists. The chief value, in our eyes, is its size, which must impress a person at first sight; but a close and careful study will show that there is not one really good or interesting feature about the building.



We do not understand the apathy of the people of this province as to the erection of this most important work. They do not seem to care whether it is built according to a good plan, or is an artistic building. They do not seem to care what it will cost, or if they are receiving value for their money. They allow a Government which should be the servant of the people, practically to tell them that it is none of their business. The Government ref use to give any information, and when they do make a pretence of doing so, it is almost invariably misleading, as it is apparently meant to be. Why all this withholding of information from those who should be informed? Is the Government afraid that the plan of their architect from the States will not bear the full light of day?





<article title="Competitions" author="">COMPETITIONS.

A

 NUMBER of architects practising in Toronto have received copies of the following circular:

KINGSTON, Dee. 26, 1888.



SIR, —Enclosed we hand you resolution passed by our vestry at the late meeting. If you feel disposed to offer suggestions or submit plans, we shall be pleased to receive same, provided they are submitted without cost. We shall be happy to give further information it desired.

Yours truly,

<person>R. WALDRON</person>,

<person>J. MUCKLESTON </person>Church.Wardens,'

"At a meeting of Finance Committee of <building>St. George's Cathedral </building>lately held, the following resolution was passed: That the church-wardens be requested to solicit designs for the proposed alterations, involving the removal of the side galleries, and increasing the interior accommodation to 800 on the ground floor such designs not to be charged for unless adopted by the Vestry, and such designs be submitted to a subsequent meeting of this Committee.'



We have come across many competitions the conditions of which showed most conclusively that the framers of them had no conception whatever of the nature of an architect's duties, or the slightest idea that an architect had any respect for himself or his profession. We must confess that the above suggested competition surpasses anything we have heard of in its cool proposal that architects should submit schemes to alter a church in some way or other, in the hope that some one of them may obtain a small commission by submitting a scheme which may meet with the approval of incompetent judges. If these men were competent to decide an architectural competitions they would never have proposed one under the circumstances, but instead, would have devoted their time and intelligence to the selection of an architect who would be able to give them the advice they require. This arrangement would certainly necessitate the paying of an architect a reasonable fee for his services, which, no doubt, is a serious objection in the eyes of those who are much more desirous of having some pet scheme of their own carried out, than accepting the careful and studied advice of a man who has made the profession of architecture his life's work. We take this opportunity of informing the Vestry of St. George's Church that they will not receive any response from any capable architect in this province. The travelling expenses to Kingston and return would very likely be more than could be made out of the entire work if the building committee should be as carefully niggardly in dealing with the possible winners of the competi-