<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	October, 1889



is done in a hurry. is generally badly done. Time given to perfecting a scheme at the beginning saves time in correcting blunders at the end.

Since the above was written we have seen in the Mail the outlines of a scheme by Messrs. <firm>McLennan, Stewart & Chapman</firm>. They go into figures to prove that warehouses under the tracks would pay. With this we agree. If this scheme had appeared before that outlined in this paper in August, it would have been a step in advance. As it is, it only supports the one suggested by us. This scheme has faults, and does not make full use of the opportunities offered. In fact it is in an exceedingly crude condition. The difference in levels of the tracks would result in the lower tracks being entirely covered by an embankment of snow every time we had a heavy storm. This method of hoisting is of the past and would not meet present requirements. They only have one storage floor, while our scheme would give three, and only require the tracks to be raised 32 feet, instead of 38 feet as their scheme calls for. That they did not see the article in this paper is evident, or they would have brought forward a much better digested scheme. Ho ever, the more schemes good and bad brought forward, the easier will be made the solution of this all-important question to the commercial interests of Toronto, and the improvement in the facilities for its inhabitants to obtain better health, by being given free access to the beneficial lake breezes.





<article title="Correspondence - The Quebec Disaster" author="">THE QUEBEC DISASTER.

QUEBEC Oct. 7th, 1889.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR—In compliance with your request of the 30th ult. for an article on the late land slide in this city, let me premise by saying that the whole Quebec promontory or rock on which the citadel and

city are built, is not, like the Laurentian hills and mountains in the near vicinity, a compact mass of gneiss or so called granite, but formed of a series of parallel strata of a schistous and lamellar structure, geologically called, I believe, Utica Slate."

These strata of a sedimentary nature and therefore originally more or less horizontal, have by some cataclysm of bygone days, been tilted up in a way to become nearly vertical; the strata towards the north side of the cliff inclining over or dipping inland, while towards the south and east they incline or dip towards the St. Lawrence, as more fully set forth by the Revd. <person>Mr. Laflamme</person>, of the Laval University M. R. S. C.

The rocks composing these strata are far from being all of them, solid and homogeneous. They are of different thickness, varying from feet to inches. They are fissured and cracked in directions more or

































less perpendicular or inclined to the lay of the beds, though generally parallel to the plane of clearage.

Water has entered for centuries at the crop out of several of the beds which under the influence thereof and that of frost and other climateric causes, have become disintegrated. reduced to rotten shale of a very thin lamellar texture, which can be extracted by the hand, and bordering, so to say. on a return to their original clay; thus dividing the more solid beds and bringing about a separation of the strata as indicated at the several crevasses hereinafter alluded to. In a word, the whole face of the cliff for some hundreds of feet north and south of the land slide and for many feet in depth towards the interior is of a loose and demoralized texture, and hence the danger.'

The summit or highest point of the land slide, immediately underlies the salient angle of the fortification wall at the south end of Dufferin Terrace, which is built over the old carronade battery still to be seen beneath the terrace flooring at this point.

The terrace floor or promenade is at 182 ft. above mean tide level of the St. Lawrence, The wall supporting the terrace at its south extremity, is some 30 ft. in height. Champlain street is some 28 ft. above mean tide level at the site of the accident, and the cliff, therefore, at this point, about 124 ft. high above Champlain St.; the section or stratum of rock, a portion of which has given away being 6o ft. wide at base, 28 ft. at summit, and say of an average thickness of 40 ft.

The accompanying sketch is a section of the cliff at about the centre of

the land slide and at its highest point; the cliff as it was before the occurrence, being shaded by hatchings along its outer edge or outcrop, while the surface of the fallen rock is roughly shown at d e c h k n ; the portion which gave way being that between k and n, along the line of fissure or crevasse C N, where the height from C to N is about ft., while the length or extent of the fallen portion may be about 300 ft.

In Jan., 1880, at the request of Sir <person>H. Langevin, Mittister </person>of Public Works of the Dominion. I reported as to the dangerous features of the rock and recommended that either buttresses, a c m p q s k b, be erected at intervals of some 20 to 30 ft., be some 30 ft. high at a, 80 ft. at b, to prevent the rock front falling, which should it do. I said, would destroy the houses on both sides of Champlain St., and sacrifice the lives of all the inmates ; or that the houses be purchased and demolished, thus in either case saving the lives of the tenants or occupants.

This second or alternative scheme was decided on, but only partly carried out, by purchasing and demolishing the houses at A on the rock side of the street, while those at B on the opposite side were allowed to remain, and these it is, numbering in all about a

dozen or less, of which some 7 have been destroyed and of the inmates swept out of existence by the late catastrophe.

Other fissures as at E, ate to be seen inland or westward of the crevasse C, from whence the rock fell, and there is a more alarming one at D which, from not quite three ft., which it was before



































































the accident, increased its dimensions at the moment 01 the slide by some 7 or 8 inches, and is therefore now more than ft. in width.

What I propose to counteract the overthrow of that portion of the cliff between C and D, some 8o ft. or more in width, is, that the upper portion of the rock from C towards D and down to t, be cut away in large masses Of a cubic yard or more, and allowed to fall on top of the present debris, and trimmed off to the line of slope d t, which is one and a half base to one vertical; thus imitating the levelling hand of time, and by thus staying the base of the cliff, prevent the fall of the section of rock between the crevasses C & D, which portion is now more secure at this point of the cliff on account of the abutting debris from d to n than it was before the slide occurred.

To do this a portion of the south end of the terrace must be sacrificed, the kiosk being removed to a point above D, to which the \ may still extend by an incline or by a flight of easy treads from the present terrace level opposite the end of Des Carrieres St, Or the terrace, if the additional expenditure of some $20,000 to $30,000 for the purpose be warranted and can be afforded, may be kept intact by procuring elsewhere the required material—some 10,000 to 15,000 cubic yards more or less— and dumping it down from above on the present debris; or, as proposed by <person>Mr Light </person>M. I. C. E., though of course at still greater cost, by building a continuous buttress of solid cement masonry, of such a breadth of base and such a height as to prevent all future alarm and danger.

<person>C. BAILLAIRGE</person>,

City Engineer.

