<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



amount of $55.50 To this sum must be added the loss of a customer and the injury to the employer's business which a customer so treated and the publication by the daily press of the names of the defendants to the suit, are likely to entail. It pays to employ only competent, careful workmen.



IT is estimated that one-tenth of the gas supplied for illuminating purposes in the city of New York escapes through imperfect joints in the gas mains. This waste product finds its way into sewers, cellars, electric conduits, etc., leading to explosions and imperilling life and property. The city authorities have determined to pass an ordinance regulating the manner in which gas mains shall be laid and joints made. As the result of enquiries we find that little or no trouble is experienced in Toronto from this cause, the gas mains being well and carefully laid, and the company prompt to remedy leaks when notified that they exist. There seems to be room for improvement in one direction, however. The City Engineer should be furnished plans locating all the gas mains and services. At the present time the city's engineers have no idea in what part of the streets gas mains are laid.



DURING the winter of 1888 the architectural students of

 Toronto

 formed themselves into an association for mutual improvement in the study of their profession. Meetings were held weekly in the Canadian Institute building. In response to the invitation of the association, a number of valuable papers were read, addresses by architects and master builders given, and discussions held thereon. These all contributed materially to the advancement of the students who were so fortunate as to be in attendance at the meeting. Probably not more than one-quarter ot the 'students of the city, however, were ever present. The majority of these, more especially the juniors, seemed to prefer to spend their evenings at some place of amusement. This had a discouraging effect on the leaders in the association, and as a result, no meetings were held last winter. We have many times heard the wish expressed, on the part of the students, that the association would, with the return of the winter season, reorganize and resume its work. We direct attention to the subject at this time in the hope that the students most interested will at once take action with that object.



N reply to our request for information concerning the cause

I

 of the recent water famine at London, Ont., and what steps are to be taken to increase the supply, Mr. <person>T. H. Tracy</person>, City Engineer, writes as follows: "The consumption has increased so much (we now having 5,000 services connected) that in the hot dry weather, it exceeds the supply by almost 100,000 gallons per day, the supply being at present a trifle over 2,000,000 gallons per day of 24 hours. In the immediate neighborhood are additional springs of a capacity of almost 1,500,000 gallons per day, which the City Council have recommended the water commissioners to expropriate so as to increase the supply to 500,000 per day, which will be ample for many years to come. There are no difficulties in the way, and it is only a question of the expenditure of say $25,000 to bring in the additional water. The water commissioners have directed their engineer and superintendent (myself) to make a report on the capacity of these springs, and any other information he may deem necessary. I have no doubt the additional water will be secured before it will again be required. In the meantime, by the assistance of the G. T. R., who pumped a portion of their supply from the river, we have the reservoir again full to the normal level, and do not anticipate any more, shortage this season."





A

 CAREFUL estimate of the freight and passenger elevators in operation in the city of Toronto, places the number of them at about 400. By far the largest proportion are freight elevators in use in warehouses, factories, stores, etc. A number of large office buildings are now in course of erection all of which will be equipped with elevators. This will make it necessary in order to secure and retain tenants, to place elevators in many

business buildings which at present are without them. Thus it is likely that the number of elevators in Toronto will in the course of a few years be largely increased. In view of this, the question arises is it not advisable that there should be instituted a system of elevator inspection, such as has been found necessary in New York and other American cities. Fortunately the number of accidents in connection with elevators, have been comparatively few in Toronto thus far. A number have occurred, however, and several lives have been lost in consequence. In addition to the necessity there is to see that elevators are properly guarded, it is well known that the strands of wire ropes subject to the constant tension imposed by elevator service, become in time disintegrated Accordingly these ropes require to be examined, and at intervals renewed, in default of which accidents with attendant loss of life, are almost certain to occur.



A

 SERIES of mass meetings of carpenters has been arranged to be held in Toronto, at which addresses are to be delivered showing the advantages of organization, arid urging that steps be taken to secure perfect union among the carpenters of the city. At the first of these meetings, a speaker stated that by means of its perfect organization the <assoc>Builders Laborers' Union of Toronto </assoc>had secured for its members double the rate of wages formerly paid to them. In fact some of them were receiving higher wages than skilled carpenters. Canadian master builders should find here a lesson for themselves. Sooner or later they will come to realize that there is power in organization, and also that until they meet organization by organization, they will continue to be placed at a disadvantage in their attempts to withstand the ofttimes unreasonable demands of the labor unions. The fact that the wages of the builders' laborers has doubled in a short period of time, may be understood to mean that undue advantage has been taken of the contractors. It would be difficult to prove that the builders laborers were formerly paid only half what they were worth, or that the contractor's profits have increased to such an extent as to justify him in complying with the demands of his workmen. On the contrary, the ever increasing keenness of competition has greatly reduced the margin of profit to the contractor, and lessened his ability to pay higher wages. By means of a powerful organization the workmen have succeeded in extorting a rate of wages which in many cases eats up what little profit remains to the master builder from his contract, keeps his family in poverty and drives him to bankruptcy. These are facts with which many of our readers are familiar. The fault as well as the remedy rests with the master builders themselves. Unlike employers of labor in almost every other branch of industry, they have no organization for mutual protection. As a consequence they fall an easy prey to the avariciousness of powerful labor organizations, the members of which so frequently call upon them to "stand and deliver."



<article title="The Woodstock Competition" author="">THE WOODSTOCK COMPETITION.

''	CANADIAN architects were invited to compete for the honor of furnishing the plans for a <building>Court House, Woodstock, Ont. </building>The

appropriation provided for a $60,000 structure. Yet notwithstanding this, the plans selected were subsequently found to involve an expenditure of at least 100,000 It would seem from this that architects are sometimes decidedly ignorant of even the approximate cost of constructing a building after their own working plans. —Building Trades Journal.



Our St. Louis contemporary evidently writes without an understanding of all the circumstances connected with the Woodstock competition. When the competition was first announced we pointed out that a building containing the required amount of space and accommodation must cost at the very least about $100,000. This fact was known to every competing architect. It was a tore gone conclusion on the part of the architects that a building fulfilling the requirements could not be erected at a cost even approximating to $60,000. The error in judgment which our contemporary attributes to the architects in this case clearly belongs to the Building Committee who asked the architects to perform an impossibility. Our contemporary is, however, correct in saying that in these days of wild estimating on the part of contractors, an architect's ideas of cost are sometimes far removed from the facts as they develop. It is a matter of

