<doctype type="text;plate">October, 1889	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	117



Electrolysis with oxidized plates produces this effect with a consumption of material ranging from one grain per gallon, and the stronger the sewage the less the power required to produce the effect. The action that takes place manufactures the necessary precipitancy agent in the sewage, whereas precipitation with solutions of chemicals means a consumption of several grains per gallon of the sewage, if the action is intended to cause an adequate deposition of matter in suspension, and the resulting effluent requires further treatment with some oxidizing agent to remove the organic matter in solution. With my electrolytical process at the same time that the precipitation of the suspended matter is taking place, the organic matter in solution is being oxidized by means of free nascent chlorine and oxygen given off at the positive plate.

The accompanying sketch will assist to a better understanding of the appliances used in the operation of this system















































































S KETCHES AT CROSSNESS

OF THE



PURI FICATION OF SEWAGE

BY



ELECTROLISIS



WEBSTERS PROCESS



Moved by <person>Dr. Cassidy</person>, seconded by <person>Dr. Bryce </person>That inasmuch as it appears from the statements contained in the report on sewage and water supplies that there have been instituted up to the present year the sewage farm at London Asylum, the precipitation by porous carbon at Guelph Agricultural College, that the city of Toronto is about to expend money for testing the precipitation method of Major Conder ; be it therefore resolved, that the board demonstrate its confidence in the principles contained in the system of electrolysis of sewage as carried on in connection with London sewage at the Crossness works on the Thames by Mr. Webster, by urging that the Toronto Council consider the expediency of experimenting on this sys

tem, as well as that of Major Conder. and also that the Government be urged to introduce it as an experiment at the Belleville Institute, thus doing away with the complaint raised against that institution by the board of that city. Carried.



<article title="Some Facts about Heat" author="">SOME FACTS ABOUT HEAT.

T

O have a change of temperature it is of course necessary that heat should pass from one body to another. This can be done in three ways. These are called conduction, convection and radiation. When heat is transmitted by what is called conduction it passes from particle to particle of matter. Each particle, we may suppose, as it receives more of that kind of motion which we call heat, increases the motion of its neighbor. When heat passes through a body of any kind by conduction, each particle of matter on its way is heated. The rate at which heat passes in this way is different for different bodies. Through silver heat passes fastest by conduction. Hence we say that silver is the best of all conductors of heat. Copper has a conducting power 81 per cent. as great as that of silver. Zinc is another very good conductor, its conducting power being about 64 per cent. of that of silver.

Through air, gases and liquids, heat cannot pass by conduction, at least, it passes in so small a degree that it is quite inappreciable. In other words, heat does not pass from one particle of a liquid or gas to another. There are a great many proofs of this, one of which is that either or any similar substance may be burned upon the surface of water, and although a great heat is produced, it will not affect a thermometer placed a fraction of an inch below the surface. Heat is readily communicated from solids to liquids and liquids to solids. When a particle of a liquid is heated by coming in contact with some hot solid, as, for example, the bottom of a dish in which it is suspended over a fire, being expanded by the heat, the colder and heavier particles press it upward toward the surface and themselves come in contact with the hot bottom of the dish. In this way the whole body of liquid or gas contained in a vessel is heated. This method of transmitting heat is called "convection." When we consider this it becomes easy to understand why it is impossible to heat all of a liquid or gas contained in a vessel or a room where there is no circulation. To become heated the circulation is necessary; every particle must in turn obtain its heat from a solid body, as the heat cannot pass from one particle to another. This accounts for a fact which has surprised many—that from some forms of steam boiler cold water can be drawn from the water legs while the boiler is making full steam freely, with the furnaces going full blast.

The third method by which heat may pass from one body to another is called "radiation." Heat radiated does not pass from one particle of a body to another, but goes through air or vacuum, or in some cases through solid bodies, with a very different velocity from that with which it is conducted. Radiant heat does not heat the body through which it passes. Thus the heat of the sun may be felt even when it passes through a pane of glass covered with frost. Many of our readers will call to mind I)r. Kane's experiment of a burning lens made from ice. In this case the heat rays from the sun were brought to a focus by passing through the ice lens, which was not melted. Most gases allow radiant heat to pass easily. When open fires were used for heating, it was radiant heat chiefly that warmed the rooms. This left the air comparatively cool ; in fact the air was not warmed at all, save as it came in contact with the walls of the room or objects in it. One of the peculiar advantages of the old fashioned fireplace was in the coolness of the air as compared with objects in the room.





It is the intention of <person>Dr. Laberge</person>, medical officer of health of the city of Montreal, to get the drainage system extended all through the city, as he thinks this is the only way to improve the health of the community. Out of 150 miles of streets there are only 90 miles of drains, and he considers it imperative to construct the remaining 6o miles as speedily as possible. He is strongly of opinion that by so doing the death-rate can be reduced.

