<doctype type="text">C ANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to be in on or before 1st Jan, 1890. First prize, $5; second, one year's subscription to C. A. & B.

5th.—Designs with details for front doors and vestibule. Designs to be sent in on or before 1st Feb. 1890. First prize. $5; second, one years subscription to C. A. & B.

6th.—Details of the interior of a small house to include those for staircase, doors, architrave, base and windows. Designs to he sent in on or before 1st March, 1890. First prize, $10: second, one years subscription to C. A. & B.

7th.—Design with details for four mantels, two of wood, one of brick and one of stone. Designs to be sent in on or before 1st of April 1890. First prize, $5 ; second, one year's subscription C. A. & B.

8th.—Three designs, with details, for front fence. Designs to be sent in on or before 1st May, 1890. First prize, $5 ; second, one year's subscription C. A. & B.

9th. —Essay on Heating and Ventilation. Essays to be sent in on or before 1st May, 1890. First prize, $10: second, one year's subscription C. A. & B.

10th.—Plan of a bath room for a medium sized house, showing the best position of fixtures; not more than five fixtures to be shown, or more than 75 square feet devoted to the bath room. Plans to be sent in on or before Jan 1st, 1890. First prize, $5 ; second, one year's subscription C. A. & B.

The <assoc>Architectural Guild of Toronto </assoc>have very kindly appointed a committee from their number to judge the above competitions. We shall publish each report as sent to us by the committee. Draughtmanship neatness and clearness of arrangement of drawings will be taken into consideration in awarding positions.

Drawings must be made on sheets of heavy whit paper or bristol board, 14 X 20 inches in size, and must be drawn to allow of their being reduced to one-half the above size. Drawings must he made in firm, strong lines, with pen and black ink. No color or brush work will be allowed.

Each drawing must be marked with the nom de plume of its author, and the author's name, nom de plume and full address, enclosed in sealed envelope, must accompany each drawing sent in.

We reserve the right to publish any design sent in.

Drawings will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the committee has given its decision.



<article title="The Viaduct Scheme" author="">THE VIADUCT SCHEME.

T

HERE seems to be a concensus of opinion that a viaduct should be built along the city front with the object of running the railway tracks front the level. There can be no doubt as to the very great benefit which would result to the city and its inhabitants if the dangers of tile bay front were removed. That they will be removed, is only a question of time. If it does not become an accomplished fact at present, it will in the future, when the increased size and importance of the city will force the carrying out of some such scheme at a much greater cost than is now requisite. 1 here are, as might be expected, many opinions as to the manner in which this much needed work should be constructed. Two reports by eminent and capable engineers have been prepared and are now before the public for consideration. While in the main these reports agree, they differ very materially in detail. One recommends an iron or steel trestle, the other an embankment between retaining walls of masonry. There are many questions of detail referred to in the reports which do not bear to any great extent on the main questions as to the raising of the tracks. Such questions can't be settled only by the parties interested. What is required is, that a general scheme should be laid down, after which the minor points can be discussed. Mr. Wellington recommends an iron or steel structure with four tracks, the erection of a <building>Union Station </building>on the Parliament Block, pressing hack of the railways to the west of York street, the opening of a freight yard in the east end, and a swing bridge over the Don. Messrs. <firm>Gzowski & Shanley </firm>favor an earth embankment between retaining walls, the building of a station tin the site of the old Parliament buildings, and tracks to the south of the embankment for the unloading of freight along the bay front. It now remains to adopt one or other of these schemes, or combine them into one scheme, or with the information they supply and such additional as may be obtained build up a more complete and perfect one. For ourselves, we are of the opinion that the solution of the question has only been entered upon. The solution is made very much more difficult owing to the very heavy outlay which must be incurred, and the magnitude of the interests involved. The carrying out of the most thorough scheme might be too great a burden for the city. it is. therefore, a question which must be solved from two points, the engineering anti the financial. The engineer might easily evolve a scheme which the finances of the city could not meet. Engineer and financier must together solve the question.

Two months ago we advocated a scheme which the reading of the above reports has convinced us is practicable. arid in the end much the better investment, although it would entail a larger amount of outlay. <person>Mr. Wellington </person>and Messrs. Gzowski & Shanley in their scheme surrender up a strip 01 land of at least 6o feet by the entire length of the viaduct or embankment. That such land is most valuable needs not to be affirmed. Whatever its value, the sum must he included in the total cost. From neither of the above schemes would any revenue be derived except whatever soot the railways would pay. According to Mr. Wellington, they should pay 2 1/2 per cent. on the cost of the viaduct while they would be allowed 3 1/2 per cent, on the

value of their land or other interest surrendered to the city. We would not be surprised that the railways would show or at least try to show that under such an arrangement the city would be entitled to pay them a yearly sum instead of them paying the city. Mr. Wellington would have done well if be had made no mention of financial questions beyond what was absolutely necessary. Nearly all his conclusions are formed on possibilities which are not at all likely to come to pass. Messrs. Gzowski & Shanley more wisely considered only the engineering problem, except in so far as it was necessary to consider the question from other points.

We will now consider the scheme we advocated in this journal with the additional information which has been supplied since it was published. We advocated the erection of a row of two storey with basement warehouses along the entire bay front from Simcoe street east, above which the railway tracks could be placed. The party walls between these warehouses would have to be made heavy enough to bear the girders on which the railway tracks would be carried. As the spans need not be greater than 30 feet the girders would not be heavy, nor would the party walls require to be made of any great additional thickness to carry the tracks. This scheme makes full use of the ground occupied by the tracks, and allows of a direct return in the form of rents to meet the interest charge. The warehouses could be made 100 feet deep from north to south, and having good light, would rent readily. The railway tracks could be placed on the north side and only the necessary length of party wall to carry tracks made heavier than usual in warehouse work. If the railways required 50 feet, there would still be left an equal amount on the south side, which could be made a magnificent promenade. That such promenade would he of great value all will admit, as it would be within easy reach of thousands, and would have the refreshing breezes of the lake continually blowing across it. The view of the bay and lake would be well worth any exertion necessary to reach the promenade. Elevators could be placed at all the plain thoroughfares by which the top could be gained by paying a small fee. We would make no change in wharfage, etc., from that suggested two months ago. If the elevator system suggested at that time could not be made of sufficient value, it could be left out, and tracks laid along the south face of warehouses which would allow of goods being delivered directly into the warehouses. Warehouses thus placed in direct connection with the railways entering the city and alongside a wharf should find tenants at high rentals. We doubt not but that many parties would be willing to build the width of a warehouse in length of the viaduct if they were given a twenty or twenty five years' lease of the warehouse they erected. The spans thus formed under the viaduct could be used for a great number of purposes—warehouses in the most central part, factories, etc., at a greater distance from the business centre, and storage and coal yards in the least valuable positions. That every part of the space under such a viaduct could be rented at figures which would go a long way towards paying the interest charge on the cost of the entire structure is almost a certainty. That the rents would pay a very high interest rate on the additional cost which would be incurred in constructing warehouses, etc., beneath the tracks, over and above the amount required for either a steel trestle or an earth enbankment should not require to be stated, as it should be clear to every one. By tile warehouse scheme the land occupied by the viaduct is made of value, and a return is obtained. By either of the other schemes the land is lost. The property on the Esplanade will lie increased very much in value by the warehouse scheme beyond what it would be increased by either the steel viaduct or earth enbankment scheme.

We do not approve of the station scheme brought forward in either of the reports. A station with six tracks in it, all of which must be reached by passing over the intermediate omies as is done in Buffalo and Rochester stations, is not in our opinion a good arrangement A station where the trains enter and leave from platforms running out from a plain platform is the best arrangement for a station. But this plan cannot be adopted for the Toronto station, as trains must be able to pass through the station in either direction Such being the ease, the next best arrangement is one whereby the different platforms may be reached by means of a passage below the tracks as is done in one of the stations in Manchester, Eng. We gave the level of the tracks at 32 feet above the Esplanade. Front street is 14 feet above, which would place the tracks 18 feet above Front street. The station yard could be raised feet which, with the floor of the waiting room 3 feet above yard level, would make the level of the passage way 20 feet above the Esplanade and to feet below the level of tracks. This would give 8 feet near head room in passage, and necessitate a lift of about 12 feet to the train platform. To gain the train platform w-e should make runs in both directions of an easy grade, and also place stairs at the side of main passage. The above arrangement would make it impossible for people to take the wrong train or in any way to get upon the tracks. There would be two baggage rooms, one at each end of the station, for east and west baggage, which would allow of the handling of all baggage without blocking up the platform or interfering with the passengers. The baggage trucks could be lifted from the level of the baggage room by lifts. I he entire space below the station would be used as a freight shed, thus making full use of the increased height of the building The freight shed would be lighted down through the station building from the roof lights by pavement lights let in between the tracks between the platforms. That a most complete and commodious station could lie planned on the above tines we are confident, and if time allows we will show that it can be done by making and publishing a plan at an early date.

We have every confidence in our scheme, and will take tile trouble to hilt it into a more definite form when we can find the necessary time to work it up. The city of Toronto should not be content to do this thing in an imperfect way, but should take every care to work out a scheme which will meet the wants of the future in so far as they can he foreseen. We have had one badly muddled scheme in the Don improvements which were entered upon without any very definite plan, except it was to spend money. his viaduct matter should be most thoroughly worked out and weighed in 1 points, and nothing done until everything has been provided for. What

