<doctype type="text;ad">142

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

December, 1889



tession should be closely joined together. They were entitled to claim incorporation as nothing less than aright. If they let the Legislature know they meant to have their request granted, and intend to keep asking until it was granted, they would have less trouble in getting it. Each member could bring influence to bear upon the legislators. They were entitled to claim from their representatives a full consideration of this matter, and Once fully considered, there could be no doubt as to the result. He hoped that the proposed Act would fully answer the purposes for which it was intended. (Applause.)

Commander Law favored the company with a song, Hearts of Oak."

The Chairman proposed the health of our Guests.'

<person>Mr. Durand</person>, in replying, thanked the company on behalf of the guests. After the fine addresses which had been delivered he could well be excused from making any extended remarks. As the guest of the Toronto architects, he had always enjoyed the generous hospitality they displayed. He was sure that all had been much benefitted by the papers that had been read at this convention. He considered the progress of the infant Association during the eight months of its existence as far beyond the expectations of even the most sanguine members of the profession. When the movement was started eight months ago, none expected that it would have reached so advanced a stage in so short a time. To the Toronto members, in conclusion, he wished to say that he was at alL times pleased to be their guest.

<person>Mr. Beicher</person>, of Peterboro', felt that the Toronto members had showed themselves to be thoroughly hospitable, and lie hoped that some day he would have it in his power to return the compliment in a fitting manner. He was sorry to say that the locality from which he came was so small that they were not in a position to properly receive the Association, but he hoped that some day they would be able to give the members a sail around the beautiful lakes in the vicinity. (Applause. ) He was sure they would be well pleased With the visit.

<person>Mr. Watts </person>said that during the last fifteen years he had always found the Toronto architects open-hearted and generous. He hoped that the day was not far distant when the 1'oronto members would stand in the same position as he now did, and respond to the toast ' ' Our guests. ' He then favored the company with a humorous story and a song.

<person>Mr. Ewart </person>added his thanks to those of the other guests who had spoken. <person>Mr. Paull </person>proposed the health of the President, and in doing so referred to the Toronto University building as a monument to his professional skill and genius.

<person>Mr. Storm </person>thanked the company for honoring him. The reference to the University building which was completed some forty years ago, would make sonic people regard hint as being advanced in years, whereas he was one of the young men of the Association. (Laughter and applause. ) He felt very deeply the kindness of the Association in electing him to the position of chief officer, and assured them that he would do the best in his power to carry out the ideas of the Association and secure the Act of Incorporation at the coming session of the Legislature. (Applause.)

<person>Mr. Burke </person>proposed the health of one who was known as a ' ' worker " in the society—the Secretary, <person>Mr. Townsend</person>.

Mr. Townsend, in responding said, that a little more than a year ago when the proposed legislation was talked of it was said there was no chance of its being secured. To-day when he looked at the work of the past year he could see that they had placed themselves in workable form and would soon be able to put Canadian architecture in the position it should occupy. He thought they over-estimated his efforts. ( No.") He had done all he could and wished he had been able to do more. He thanked the members for their confidence in him.

Mr. Bousfield in proposing the toast of "The Press" took occasion to say some very kind things about the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

Mr. <person>C. H. Mortimer </person>responded.

Mr. Curry proposed success to the new Act of Incorporation." After this had been drank the company sang "Auld lang Syne and separated.

THE EXHIBITION OF ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS.

THE exhibition of architectural drawings held in connection with the first convention of the 0. A. A., in the Canadian Institute, proved to be a valuable and instructive collection, and may be considered in many respects equal to similar exhibitions held in cities of a much Larger growth than Toronto.

The growth of this city has been phenomenal. Private residences, business establishments, public and religious buildings are here projected and built up from day to day and year to year, so that the field for the architect has been and doubtless will continue to be an exceptionally good one. Already the Queen City has within its precincts numerous evidences of advanced taste and culture in architectural monuments which the citizens may well he proud of, while the next two or three years will witness the completion of still grander edifices.

The exhibition of drawings was varied and comprehensive, every department of the drawing office being admirably represented. The series of colour drawings of post office and other Government buildings kindly lent by Mr. Fuller, of Ottawa, are specially fine, and from an artistic point of view, were the attraction of the exhibition. While the subjects, naturally, from their mathematical exactness, are not usually chosen by artists for their pictures, the taste and skill shown in coloring these excellent drawings prove Mr. Fuller to be as much artist as architect.

Messrs. Darling & Curry's large perspective drawing in "pen and ink" of their Parliament Buildings, is an example of another style of architectural draughtsmanship, now much in vogue. Mr. Darling, the designer and draughtsman, has won laurels in the estimation of those best able to judge, by his skilful execution of this design. Beneath it is a well drawn geometric elevation of the building.

Accompanying this exhibit is a large folio of some eighteen sheets of working drawings in full detail, prepared with much care and ability, a revelation to the uninitiated of the labor and forethought, skill and ingenuity entailed in the preparations for the erection of great buildings.

Mr. Storm, the President of the 0. A. A., exhibits among other drawings, some wonderful free-hand drawings of the interior of Osgoode Hall. How few of our students of to-day are possessed of the necessary pluck and patience to produce such work as is here displayed. A charming effect in this pen and ink drawing is obtained by the use of diluted ink for the distance, similar to that obtained by the use of the" roulette" in drawings for photo-engraving.

Mr. Lennox shows the large colour perspective of the Court House, well known to us all. his effective coloring and clever painting of the surroundings, gives the beholder an excellent idea of the ultimate appearance of this fine structure of the Richardson type.

Messrs. Langley & Burke exhibit a number of drawings in various styles of draughtsmanship, among which we are pleased to notice the pen and ink work of their student, Mr. J. C. B.



<firm>Bell art stained glass works

</firm>THE MANUFACTURERS OF ECGLES1ASTIC

	and DOMESTIC A R T G L A S S

	-	        Of Every Description		LEAD CLAZINC AND SAND CUT A SPECIALTY.

	RICHMOND ST. WEST	-	TORONTO, ONT.

	D.	





MINERAL WOOL

The Great Non-Conductor.

Architects and Builders Make your building perfect by dead ening the floors and lining the sides

and roofs with MINERAL WOOL. Keeps out the cold in winter and the heat in sum iner, and makes them sound, fire, frost and vermin proof.



For sale in any quantity by



<firm>GAST and ATCHISON</firm>,



MINERAL WOOL STEAM PIPE AND BOILER COVERING

(Lamkin's Patent)





