<doctype type="text;plate">January, 1889             THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	13



tive work, an occasion to take up a palm on tints system or drainage. I took up the whole, and gave it a thorough examination, and in no place could you detect n the earth which lay adjacent to these tiles, in which they were immediately encompassed either by appearance or odor, the slightest difference from ordinary fresh-smelling garden mould. This has been going on, as I say. since seven years ago last autumn, for a household of six persons, with rather a copious use of water, and there hats been no other means adopted. I would not. of course, on my own single experiment, venture to recommend this, as I have done frequently, to the public as being worthy of adoption. Its use has ex-tended very much. I applied It last year to the sewage of the whole village of Lennox, in Massachusetts; and in England it is being adopted for the sewage of country houses far and wide, and is based on the principle which is thought by many English engineers to promise the only relief that they can have from their sewage. When I am describing this, the question which is almost universally asked is, what becomes of the solid matter and grease in the settling basin? At first 1 used to have it taken out and buried about once in three months—dug a trench in the ground near by, cleaned out the settling basin and buried its contents in the trench. But once, only as week after cleaning it out, I had occasion to empty it again for another purpose and found that it was as foul as it had been after a longer interval. That was about three years ago. Since that time the settling basin has never been opened except for inspection, and its condition remains always the same. The explanation is perfectly simple. 'The solid matter at the bottom of the tank is decomposable matter, and is constantly passing itself off in solution in the water which flows away ; and the matters which are decomposing are very strong producers of ammonia, which acts upon the tinder side of the floor of grease and converts that into soap, which in its time passes off," <person>James C. Bayles</person>author of the well known treatise on "House Drainage and Water Service," says: "Having had three years' experience with this system, so far as its essential details are concerned, in draining my new house, I have no hesitation in expressing the opinion that under favorable conditions it will work satisfactorily, and be found an improvement on any other system which can be contained within the restricted limits of a village lot or villas site.,,

<person>Dr. Whitehorne</person>, physician of the Essex County Penitentiary, says: "I would say that the fact of the utility of the system is patent, and under proper conditions is available for the healthful disposal of the sewage equally of the smallest family or the largest public institution Before the change was made here the solid foecal matters were composted and made use of on the farm, but a large portion of the immense amount of liquid, holding noxious matter in suspension, found its way unto a neighboring brook, and contaminated both the air and the running waiter, being perceptible as far as Caldwell village three fourths of a mile distant. At present the solids are equally available for composting, and the saturated liquids, by means of line system of laterals, are disposed of without defiling time running water below. During summer the ground above made use of for a kitchen garden, and produces abundantly, so that thus controlled these elements otherwise poisonous, are made subservient to the good of man."

Mr. <person>Edward S. Philbrick</person>says: "There are so many places where this system is applicable, and its merits are so great in such places, that a full and detailed description of it may be of interest. The limits of its application are as follows : Wherever a quarter of an acre of grass land is available for a single family of eight or ten persons, or an acre for an aggregate of eighty persons. so situated that the surface of the sod is five feet or more below the level of the sewage drain, where it leaves the house or houses, this system will dispose of all them wage in a satisfactory manner, summer and winter, with very little attention, for a term of years.

Dr. Pinkham, before referred to, addressed circulars to some sixty people who for various lengths of time had employed the sub-surface irrigation system Their replies were satisfactory almost to a unit.

The questions were 1st, State size of family ; 2nd, Approximate first cost of system; 3rd, Approximate cost of annual maintenance ; 4th, Length of time in use ; 5th, Is system free from nuisance ? 6th, Is all house waste satisfactorily disposed of? 7th, Have stoppages occurred? 8th, Is the soakage areas underdrained? 9th Is it superficially dry? 10th, Give any facts which you think may be of service in determining to what extent and under what circumstances this system can line recommended for general use.

As to question 1st, (size of family.) the answers were, " from four to one hundred and fifty '—the latter number in '<building>Essex County Penitentiary</building>; 2nd, (first cost) ranged from $175 to $1,000 3rd (cost of annual maintenance,) "from nothing to $23"; 4th, (length of time in use,) "seventeen months to five years ;" 5th (Is system free from nuisance?) " Yes, " unanimously ; 6th, (Is all waste satisfactorily disposed of?) " Yes," in all but two cases 7th (Have stoppages occurred?) "No,' in all but four instances ; 8th, (Is soakage area underdrained?) ' No,"in every case but one ; 9th (Is it sufficiently dry?) "Yes," unanimously 10th, Give facts, etc.) all spoke most favorably, giving the system second place only to the system in vogue in regularly sewered towns. Where stoppages occurred, the replies were to the effect that it was to a small extent, and in one, "once in three years.

'the accompanying cuts Fig. 1 and 2, are the plans and details of the system as adopted at the new <building>Dining Hall Building erected at Woodstock College</building>and carried out by the firm of which I am a member, in the years 1886 and 1887.

The site selected for the new building is between the two old buildings and well situated for the new method of sewage disposal.

The Smead system of beating having been adopted, the "dry closet" system was introduced—conveniences being required only for the steward and servants of the institution.

The fixtures emptying into the drainage system are four sinks, five wash tubs and two baths. Water closets could also have been added if found desirable, in which case a larger and deeper receiving tank would have been required, giving a longer time for the paper and excreta to dissolve. The dining hall is planned to accommodate from 150 to 200 boarders

No accurate data could be obtained as to the required length of drain tile

which would be required. A sufficiency of ground was leveled and some 6oo feet lineal of 2 in. porous drain tiles laid. This quantity proved

somewhat inadequate, amid an extension of about 50 ft.

in length was made

' after one winter's trial.



The system was



installed under several disadvantages

notwithstanding

which it is reported

as working satisfactorily, and as having solved as most perplexing problem in regard to the disposal of the college wastes.

The disadvantages



above referred to were



1st, that glazed T pipes had to be used for connections to the weeping drains instead of specially made Vs—the V looking down stream, instead of up as in ordinary drain tiles 2nd, the weeping drains should properly have been laid in specially made gutters of hall tiles; instead of these, rough boards 6x1 inch, from 6 to 12 feet long were used; 3rd, specially made caps to cover the upper side of the joints of the weeping tiles could not be obtained in time, and in substitution, pieces of tarred felt were used, and kept in place with gravel and stone chips till the earth was filled in.

The Y pipes locking down stream receive the flow- more evenly, the tendency of the flow being to pass the T pipes nearest the tank with a rush, thus gorging the lower end of the system.

The object of laying the weepers on a foundation of tiles or boards is to secure a more even fall, and in case of stoppage one or more pipes can be removed cleansed and replaced, by an unskilled workman without interfering with the grading or working of the system.

The weeping drains are laid from 9 in- to t2 in. below the surface of the ground and the area is used as a lawn. No trouble in regard to frost was experienced, although the thermometer ranges several degrees lower in winter there than in Toronto.

The system as applied to Lorne Park summer resort will be illustrated in a future issue.





An English critic, writing about his visit to Toronto, calls it ''a first-rate town, barring its mud, which appears to be composed of Portland cement and glue in equal proportions." He adds further: "It would, according to our notions, be an improvement to the appearance of the streets if a glimpse of the sky were here and there allowed to be caught through the fabric of electric wires which pervades the atmosphere."