<doctype type="text">December, 1889	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	137



opportunity offers will Shine equal to the brightest light in any of the other Associations.

In accepting the position to which by your kindness and generosity you have elected me, I am not so vain as to believe that the honor conferred is due to any extra merit in myself, or that I can more fittingly perform the duties of the office, but because of my earnest desire to lend my best endeavors to further the interests of the profession at large in this province. I am very happy in being able to congratulate the profession upon the unparalleled success attendant upon its efforts so far in the formation of the Association. I need not now remind you of the many attempts made in the past to form organizations for the advancement of the art and science of Architecture in this city and province, and their utter failure in every instance, principally I think from two causes—petty professional jealousies on the one hand, and want of energy and interest in the management on the other. Well has it been said by one writer— speaking in reference to the profession of Architecture—that "the modern system of competition and the rivalries of private practice, bring into undue prominence individual interests, until the members of the profession may be described as a number of fortuitous atoms with a strong tendency to develop the antithesis of esprit de corps." The formation of this Association will I trust for ever—so far as Ontario is concerned—bury in the utmost depths of oblivion this stigma upon the members of an honorable, and if properly understood a learned profession.

Nor do we forget that, in the formation of this Association, these re-unions will exercise an elevating influence upon the individual members of the profession, for every member of such a society as this, is by the fact of his membership, bound to make himself useful, and I hold that it is the duty of each of us, as we are in turn called upon, to add what we can to its utility by pouring into the common fund that information which our particular studies may have made us best capable of imparting. Nor is the performance of such a duty entirely unselfish, or by any means without its reward ; for omitting the pleasure which every generous mind has in sharing its possessions, there is an isolation to be avoided which would be fatal to each of us if we all pursued a contrary course. "If we persist " says Johnson "in an uncommunicative taciturnity, as we impart no knowledge so we invite no information, but reposing on a stubborn self sufficiency self-centered, we neglect the interchange of that social activity by which we ought to be habitually endeared to one another." At the same time if I rightly understand our object, we do not come here for the idle gratification of a light curiosity, but with the hope of receiving such solid and useful information as may serve to make us wiser men and aid us in the performance of those public and professional, as well as those domestic, social and moral duties, the faithful and energetic exercise of which is not less necessary to our individual success than to the public good.

From its inception this scheme has excited the warmest interest in all the leading members of the profession, and the directorate has entered into the subject with such spirit that I think I am justified in saying that there is hardly an architect of note practicing in this province who has failed to identify himself with the movement. When last year I was appointed a member of a Committee of the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Guild </assoc>to consider the question of the formation of an Association with a view to ultimate incorporation, I little thought that in the space of one short year, it would be my privilege to stand before so large an assemblage of the profession gathered from all parts of the province, and be able to say, as I can 11)-day say, " Gentlemen, our undertaking is no longer a mere Utopian fancy—it is, through the energy and patient working of your directorate, now on the high road to success." We have accomplished as much in twelve or fifteen months as our brethren in the Mother Country have in more than as many years. And are now ready to go to the Lieutenant Governor and tell him tha: our Association contains practically the whole of the profession in this province; that the public are beginniug to call for some guarantee of the ability of persons calling themselves Architects, and that we are prepared to give them that guarantee; that we have discussed the subject in the most exhaustive manner and think we

see our way to a state of affairs that will protect the public from incompetent and unscrupulous men and secure an improvement in the Architecture of the country alike beneficial to the health, wealth and happiness of the people, while at the same time the profession is placed in the position it ought to occupy.

The education and training of an architect should be at once general and technical, theoretical and practical, as it is in other professions. I would ask you is that the case now? Do not men engage in architectural pursuits without the aid of previous training, pupilage, or any formality whatever except the assumption of a title ?—the name put up and the thing is done. Does architectural study present such a limited field? Is our profession such a mean acquirement that no special education is necessary? Can a young man "pick it up" as he would expect to do an insurance agency—a land jobber's or real estate broker's business? Emphatically no! To possess the knowledge to build and the skill to plan and design a building, and to deal with the innumerable questions, scientific, artistic, legal and sanitary, which continually present themselves in ordinary practice, a training as arduous and prolonged as that of any of the liberal professions is necessary. Both doctors and lawyers have established an examination covering the general education of candidates for studentship, to ascertain that they have a sufficient foundation to sustain the enormous pile they intend to erect upon it, and we purpose, as will be seen by reference to clause No. 26 of the proposed Act of Incorporation, to adopt a similar test of educational attainments before a young man can enter upon the study of the profession of Architecture.

The public are quite as much interested in the efficient education of architects, as they are in that of physicians and surgeons

indeed, according to the expressed opinion of an English professor, the former is a more important profession than the latter, and accordingly he urged the students to devote their best energies to the attainment of a perfect mastery of every branch of study connected with their profession so as to be able to deal efficiently with the interests which may be committed to their care, because that while to the physician is entrusted the care of the patient after disease has found a lodgment in the system, the architect has charge of the Construction of the homes of the community which, from want of a thorough knowledge of sanitary and other kindred matters, may become the hot bed of foul and fatal diseases carrying misery and death throughout the whole neighborhood, instead of being the health—giving homes of a happy and prosperous community.

Medical men tell us that a vast majority of cases of zymotic diseases arise from imperfectly drained or badly ventilated dwellings, and it must be borne in mind that it is not only the first occupants of such dwellings who suffer and often die, but succeeding generations. Is it therefore not important to the public that all of us should be qualified in sanitary science and construction before being allowed to practice?

We do not propose to say that henceforth all who build shall employ an architect, but what we do urge in the interest of the public, as well as of a noble profession, is, that no person shall be entitled to call himself an architect whose name is not enrolled as qualified under an Act of Parliament, and that any persons Who wish to employ an architect shall be able, by consulting the official register to ascertain what men are thus qualified?

I take leave here to say that whatever differences of opinion there may be as to the cause, a large section of the public carry on building operations without professional aid. No doubt in the judgment of the profession the public are the losers, but it is equally clear that the profession also suffers loss. My conviction is that this state of things is chiefly owing to the want of status in the profession which the passing of the proposed Act of Incorporation and the full organization of our Association will supply.

The public not only suffer from ignorant practitioners, but the profession suffers from the absence of confidence on the part of the public, engendered by experience of unqualified practitioners. If the public were assured that the guarantee of previous special and technical study was possessed by the members of the profession who are registered on the roll of this Association,

