<doctype type="colophon;text">VOL. 11.—No X.	TORONTO, CANADA, OCTOBER, 1889.	 PRICE 20 CENTS

		$2.00 PER YEAR.



Canadian Architect and Builder,!

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED ON THE 15TH OF EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, ANJ) MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. II. MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



S UBSCRI PTION S.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.

A DVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th a of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



ED ITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the Canadian Architect and Builder " its official paper.



F

OR the Construction of a business building of medium cost, a Toronto architect received the other day tenders from fifty contractors. This serves to show the extent to which competition exists in the building trade, and in a measure accounts for the unremunerative condition of the business.



WHILE many Toronto Contractors find a difficulty in finding enough work to do, a few seem to have secured

more city contracts than they can get through with, in the time specified. The frequent complaints of citizens concerning delays in the execution of public works, has led the Mayor to make a personal investigation.



S

TONE is coming largely into use in Toronto of late, and the demand is certain to increase very rapidly. Many valuable stone quarries which have hitherto lain idle and unprofitable on the owners' hands, should in the near future prove sources of much profit. The quarries of the lower provinces are beginning to find a Canadian market for stone which formerly was sold almost exclusively in the United States.



E

FFORTS are being made in Winnipeg to induce the Dominion Government to remove all obstructions from the channel of the Red River, and deepen the same so as to permit of Winnipeg being made the headquarters for Lake Winnipeg navigation. It is estimated that the modest sum of $13,000 would cover the cost of the improvement. If this be so, we should suppose that if the Government will not carry out the work, the city might very well afford to do so, in view of the commercial benefits which would be likely to accrue therefrom.

T

HERE are indications pointing 10 the city of Toronto as the scene of extensive building operations next year. One of these is the appointment of a committee of prominent Citizens, to report a well-considered scheme for the erection of a commodious fire-proof hotel. It is designed that the proposed hotel shall be first-class in all its appointments. Its cost is placed at upwards of half a million dollars. There seems to be little doubt that a company with a capital of $1,000,000 will be formed to carry out the project.



W

E think it would tend to the development of the <assoc>Canadian Society of Civil Engineers </assoc>and widen the interest in its work, if local sections or associations were formed in the principal cities throughout the Dominion. At present all meetings of the association are held at headquarters in Montreal, and are consequently inaccessible to a large majority of the members throughout the country. We learn that the <assoc>American Society of Civil Engineers </assoc>is about to take such a step, and the proposed new departure is meeting with much favor.



R. <person>Erastus Wiman</person>, writing on "The Mercantile Agency M and its Relation to Business," says the agencies have grown with the requirements and extension of trade, the result having been to create and crystallize a mass of information as essential to the safe conduct of business as the insurance company, the railway and other trade facilities. This is exactly what we might expect to hear from the head of a mercantile agency. Notwithstanding, we have reasons for believing that the information supplied through these agencies is not always of the character which business men can depend upon, and that in some cases at least, ordinary diligence is not observed to make it so.



T HE <assoc>Montreal Road Committee </assoc>is out of funds, and what is worse, has exceeded the appropriation placed at its disposal by no less a sum than $43,000 Notwithstanding the large amount expended, the citizens are clamoring for improvements and repairs. The City Surveyor charges his deputy with the blame of extravagant expenditure. The Road Committee of next year will be expected to get along without the $43,000 over-expended by their predecessors, and that their pathway will not be strewn with flowers may easily be gathered from the Gazette's remark, that "if next year's streets are $43,000 worse than this year's the aldermen are likely to hear from interested citizens." In other words the Road Committee of next year must be prepared to make bricks without straw.





A N unintelligent or careless workman may involve his employer in heavy loss, and is pretty certain in one way or

another to prove himself a source of annoyance as well. An instance of this was brought to our notice recently by a perusal of the proceedings of one of the Toronto courts. Action was brought against a firm of master plumbers to recover $200 damages for injury to children and property by an explosion caused through the carelessness of one of their employees while repairing water pipes. The jury awarded the plaintiff damages to the

