<doctype type="text">140

                                                      C ANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

December 1889



Smith's boiler or Jones the mason, and Brown the carpenter, is to be condemned. It is unnecessary. It the building has merits and pleases a person who is on the look-out for an architect, he can easily discover by a few enquiries the address of the designer. At the same time, it is a question if an architect should not have the right to affix his name in a modest manner to a building after it has been completed as an artist does to a picture which he has drawn or painted.

The public should with equal reason have an opportunity of knowing the name of the architect who designed a Gallery of Art, for instance, as they have of knowing who painted the pictures in the rooms within. The result of the building has been arrived at with perhaps a far greater expenditure of energy and brains than the completion of the picture, and certainly has required more versatility, the architect being artist, constructor and business man at one and the same time. It would add immensely to the enjoyment of a visit by an architect to a strange city, were he able to discover on each building of interest to him the name of the designer, made familiar to him perhaps through the architectural journals, and now coming before him almost like an old friend.

The following extract from the address of <person>Mr. Cutler</person>, President of the <assoc>Western New York Association of Architects</assoc>, at their convention last February, is appropriate to the general tenor of this paper. He says:

"What is needed, then, to prevent the ravages of unreasonable competition 'from wasting at noon day,' is the full development of the professional idea, and to this end association and acquaintance are to be cultivated, and will, I believe, answer every good purpose. Any qualified architect who devotes his time to doing well what comes to him, and spare time to study, will not wait long for plenty to do, and has no time to run around looking for work. And right here is the difference between the trade view and the professional view. The commercial architect is for revenue only. He hunts an intended house or church builder as a sportsman would game, an(l not only this, he will steal the legitimate game of another hunter, and if necessary stab the owner in the back. 'the professional architect maintains the same attitude with regard to obtaining business that characterizes a reputable lawyer or doctor. He will be just as careful not to forget his competitor's rights, as a doctor would l)e to consider every chance of transgressing the ethics of his profession before taking charge of a case, I believe that every young architect who will choose to identify himself with the last named class will not only do better in the long run from a financial point of view, but will be much more comfortable and content with his calling.'

It is most gratifying to be able to add that we are already awakening to a more careful observance of the ethics of the profession. The contact with our fellows in this Association is making itself felt. We are less rivals and more brethren, we are better known to each other and more respected we are more united, and better able to secure public recognition and appreciation; we are more self-respecting, and have undoubtedly taken a higher place in the community in consequence.

<person>Mr. Gordon </person>moved a vote of thanks to <person>Mr. Burke </person>for his very excellent paper. He thought the paper should be in the hands of every member of the profession.

<person>Mr. Paull</person>! seconded the motion.

<person>Mr. Bousfield </person>said he was exceedingly glad that this matter had been brought up. It was a subject that all should take deeply to heart. He had tried at the first meeting to have something of the kind inserted in the by-laws, but it was thought advisable to leave the whole matter in the hands of the Board. As yet they had not done anything. but it was to be hoped they would move before long. He might mention a case which came to his notice this year. A certain gentleman who had been talking for six months about building a house, asked him if he would carry out the work. In four visits this gentleman occupied half an hour each time in talking about the details, and as to how he should proceed to borrow the money be needed, The building was to cost only $2,500. After all this fuss, the gentleman said he would like to have plans prepared before anything definite was done, and he would compare them with plans a young man was getting out for him. He replied that he did not care to compete for so small a job, and did not want anything to do with it. The next question asked was, "What are you going to charge ?' To this the reply made was

5 per cent." The gentleman then left and got the young architect to do the job for 4 per cent. The inexperienced man ran the cost up 10 $3,000, so that he got $120 as the four per cent. commission, whereas had the work been done by an experienced man, the fee at five per cent, would have been $125, and the work would have been done for $2,500.

<person>Mr. Langley </person>said that the practice of announcing the names of the architect and contractor by enormous signs on new buildings had struck him as a very strange proceeding.

The Chairmen put the motion for the vole of thanks and it was carried.

Mr. Bousfield said he had noticed that the American Architect advocated the names of architects being put upon buildings, though not necessarily in a conspicuous position. He thought a modest sign on important buildings would not be objectionable.

Mr. Langley moved, seconded by Mr. Gordon : ' That this Association condemns most unequivocally the practice lately introduced into this city by sonic architects, namely, that of advertising on conspicuous places on new buildings while in progress. as being beneath the dignity of the profession. At the same time, we cannot take exception to an architect attaching his name in a modest manner to any building erected by him.'

Mr. Burke said he was going to suggest that it would be a good idea if the association were to recognize sonic position in which a tablet could be placed. Then a visiting architect would know where to look for the name.

The motion was carried, and the Association adjourned for lunch.



AFTERNOON SESSION.



The Association resumed at two o'clock.

<person>Mr. Durand </person>moved, seconded by <person>Mr. Peters</person>, that whereas it is necessary that funds should be provided for meeting the expenses of legislation re Act of Incorporation, be it resolved that the Secretary send notice to each

of the members of the Association requesting that the annual dues for 1890 be paid to the Treasurer on or before the 1st day of January, 1890. The motion carried.

The chairman announced that the next business would be the choice of the next place of meeting.

<person>Mr. Watts </person>moved that Ottawa be the next place of meeting.

<person>Mr. Bousfield </person>moved that the next annual meeting be held in Toronto for the reason that it was most convenient for the majority of the members.

Mr. Durand said that if he had any idea that the Association would assemble in sufficient numbers at Ottawa, or London, to term a quorum, he would favor those places. He thought the next meeting should be held in Toronto, and then with increased numbers and influence they could go elsewhere.

Mr. Peters thought that until the Association was in running order it should meet in Toronto.

<person>Mr. Edwards </person>also favored Toronto for the present, and thought that some time in the future they might go to Ottawa.

'The Chairman said that an additional reason for having the next meeting in Toronto was, that if the Act were passed, it might be necessary to call a meeting immediately to form the new association under it, and that meeting should be held in Toronto.

The motion to hold the next meeting in Toronto was carried, three votes only being given against it.

POWELL V. BOWMANVILLE.

The case of Powell v. Bowmanville being on the Agenda for discussion, the Chairman said it would not be wise to discuss it as it, was at present sub judice

<person>Mr. Smith </person>asked permission to explain to the Association a similar case. <person>Mr. Powell </person>and himself occupied a somewhat similar position. They were both before the courts appealing against the judges upon certain points of law. These points were raised by the same body of men. The Board of Education of Bowmanville asked for competitive plans for a ten roomed school. On the eve of the reception of the plans they by resolution changed their request to that of a twelve room school. They returned the drawings, and asked to have them remodelled to a twelve room school. He was unfortunate enough to be among the competitors, and still more unfortunate in having his drawings adopted unanimously by the Board. He was invited to attend a meeting of the Board with a view to discuss changes, and he attended. On the original drawing he had only allowed for sufficient room in the basement for the purpose of heating and ventilation. The Board decided, however, to have the whole basement excavated, to have a concrete floor, and to have the basement lighted from a large number of windows. In consequence of these changes lie laid aside the old drawings, and made new ones in accordance with the changes desired. The excavations were done, and tenders for the work were called. The original estimate was $18,000, but the tenders on the amended plans were far in excess of that sum. The consequence was that although a portion of the work had been done, they threw out the plans and asked for more drawings.. They then dealt with Mr. Powell, who had been the successful candidate at the first competition, and treated him in the same manner. Suit was brought to recover the percentage due to architects for the work done, and the judges held that as the Board had not accepted the plans under its corporate seal, it was not liable, although the minutes of its meetings showed it had accepted the plans. This decision was now being appealed from. This was a point which it might he of value for architects generally to note, namely, the importance of the seal of corporate bodies being affixed to their documents.

The Secretary read a letter from the publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER informing the Association that it was proposed to issue a weekly sheet for the purpose of affording architects and others desiring tenders, a more frequent medium of communication with contractors.

Mr. Bousfield said that the Association had formally adopted this paper as their official organ, and therefore it was in their oun interest to support

it.	At present there were in Toronto half-a-dozen newspapers, and if it was desired to reach all the contractors it was necessary to advertise in all those newspapers, and eveii, then perhaps, the purpose of the advertisement would not be properly served. By the adoption of a regular means of communication between the architect and contractors, the latter would know where to look for advertisments of tenders wanted. It was proposed by the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER to issue a weekly edition for this purpose. If the architects would agree to place all such advertisments in this sheet, it would he a great advantage to their official organ, and they would receive a benefit in the improved paper they would eventually get. He therefore moved : " '1 hat this Convention approves of the weekly sheet edition of the C'ANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for the purpose mentioned in the letter read, with special reference to the subject of advertising for tenders, agreeing hereby to use the sante as their medium of communication with contractors."

Mr. Burke speaking in support of the motion said that he would like to see the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER issued every week. It contained a great deal of valuable material, and much other valuable material might be published. He would be glad to subscribe towards the additional cost of the weekly edition, but in default of that, cordially supported the weekly 'beet. The motion carried.

