<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN\ ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

November, 1889



taking a comprehensive grasp of the situation at the present time, endless expense and annoyance will be avoided in the future.



A FEW weeks ago we published a quotation from an English professional journal against the practice adopted by some architects in this country, of putting up notice boards with their names and addresses on the buildings they are constructing. We know a case in which the "architect," not content with this way of advertising, added to his notice board a sentence to the effect that he was a good man to employ because he had the work executed in a remarkably short time, and anyone coming to him would have no tedious delays. Now all this is decidedly vulgar to say the least of it, and it is very different from a custom that exists in England and is advocated in the United States. If a man carries out an important building, and one of which he has a right to feel proud, why should there be nothing to show to generations following who was the author of the design? Every artist affixes his name to his paintings, so that there can be no doubt as to their authorship. The Mayor and Corporation have their names inscribed in conspicuous positions on public buildings erected in their tenure of office, or the president of a company or club and sometimes other officials have their names handed down to posterity, but the architect, whose skill and ability has been put forth to produce the building, is consigned to oblivion. In England where, for an architect to advertise even by a card in the daily papers is looked upon with scorn and as degrading, it is allowable for him to inscribe his name upon the building executed from his designs and under his superintendence, not necessarily in a very conspicuous position, but somewhere where it can be seen, if need be, and then there can be no possibility of another getting the credit that belongs to the author only. In the case of a building whose design has been "cribbed," and we are sorry to say there are not a few of these around us, of course it would be instructive if the architect honestly attributed the success of the design to the original author. We should then see something like this upon our buildings

"ARCH ITECT OF THIS—MR. SO AND SO."

"ARCHITECT OF THE BUILDING OF WHICH THIS IS A COPY,

SLIGHTLY MODIFIED—MR. D."

Or, as in the case of one building in particular,

"ARCHITECT OF THIS—MR. SO AND SO."

"ARCHITECT OF THE BUILDING OF WHICH THIS Is A MODIFIED

COPY—MR. THIS."

"ARCHITECT OF THE Original. BUILDING OF WHICH THE

OTHER BUILDING IS A MODIFIED COPY—MR THAT."

But then it is cheaper to in size the first line, and leave it there.





T

HE demand for vaults opening directly out of offices has resulted as might have been expected in the erection of vaults which are fire-proof in nothing but in name. A tenant considers he must have a vault, and as he does not pay much attention to its character, he is satisfied if it is but a hole in a wall of masonry with an iron door of some kind or other, and fastened with a combination lock. It is rather a difficult matter to say what is a perfectly safe vault ; but it has been the practice of careful men to build them at least two feet thick, with an air space, and of a size large enough to stand against any possible destruction of surrounding walls. Such a vault is safe against any ordinary fire, but how far it may be reduced in thickness of walling, or how far it may be reasonable to allow it to depend on surrounding walls for stability, has not been determined. It will be shown before very long, that many of the so called fire-proof vaults now building in our office buildings are not fire-proof. We have only to wait for a fire in some one of these buildings to have it proven beyond a doubt that one-half of all our vaults are being built, first, with walls much too thin to resist the action of an ordinary fire, and second, with too little stability to resist the shock of falling floors or walls. Such vaults might answer in what are generally called fire-proof buildings, but certainly not in buildings of wooden construction. It is a common practice with the object of saving space, to set vault in the angle formed by two walls, often

thinning one or both walls by enclosing a small space with a wall across the angle. The enclosing walls are often ridiculously thin and the vault almost useless as to size. In case of fire it will be worse than useless, as all papers entrusted to its protection will be consumed either through the thinness of its walls, or the inability of the building to withstand the shock of falling floors or walls, and thus allowing the vault to fall or crash sufficiently to render them of no avail against the fire. Vaults thus constructed may cause very serious losses, as tenants naturally look upon them as being safe against fire and will place many valuable documents within them, which if they for one moment suspected the worthlessness of the vaults, they would place where they would be perfectly safe. This matter is so important a one that some effort should be made which will insure that all vaults erected in buildings for rental purposes shall be built to fulfill their purposes beyond any possibility of failure. It may be said that there are few such vaults built or being built. We are convinced that a careful examination of vaults in this city would reveal that many are absolutely valueless in the opinion of competent experts. And as the tendency in all but the most substantial buildings is towards greater elaboration, at the expense of the structural features, the evil is on the increase, and will not be checked unless some disaster happens to show the utter worthlessness of these supposed fireproof vaults, or supervision in the interests of the public is adopted.



T

 HE first regular Convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>will be held in Toronto on the 20th and 21st inst. All arrangements are fully completed, and nothing remains to be done but for each member to be present at the meeting and take an active part in the business brought before

it. Papers are to be read of interest to the profession, and it is hoped that every one will prepare himself to take part in any discussion which may arise out of the matters brought up. Each member should consider that he may be able to do the Association much good by rendering such assistance as he may be able. The presence of a member at the meeting is of value, even though he may not express his opinion except in voting. The members should be able to make the attendance at the Convention return them in information and in other ways more than their outlay will amount to. The discussions should be of value to all in giving them some knowledge of how others do work of the same character as their own. To meet with other members of one's profession and derive new and fresh ideas, must be of great benefit to anyone, no matter how high he may stand in his profession, nor how much he may know.



It was determined by the Board of Directors to hold an Exhibition of Architectural Drawings during the Convention, and it is earnestly urged on all members to send such drawings as they may have, and which may be of interest. A Bill to incorporate the Association has been proposed, and will be submitted to the Convention. A copy of the same will be sent to each member, that he may be able to study the Bill and make suggestions for its improvement. This matter is of the utmost importance to the profession and also to the general public, in whose interest the Bill is really prepared. The principal object of the Bill is to insure that all men who may set themselves up to practice architecture shall be competent to carry out any work entrusted to them. As matters now stand, any man may be an architect and forthwith proceed to erect a building which may be dangerous to life through its inferior construction or bad sanitary arrangements. That more deaths have not occurred through badly constructed buildings, is most fortunate. The number who have died as the result of bad sanitary arrangements will never be known nor will we ever be able to figure up the loss caused by illness that would not have been if someone had not meddled where they had not the knowledge. Every one should be present to aid in this matter, as the profession and each member are deeply interested. The officers and members of the Association resident in Toronto have determined to entertain the visiting members at a dinner to be held on the evening of the second day. All members should strive to be

