	{ PRICE 20 CENTS VOL 11.—No, I. TORONTO, CANADA, JANUARY, 1889. $2.00 PER YEAR.	

<doctype type="colophon;text">THE





Canadian Architect and Builder

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE Methods

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.









C. H. MORTIMER, PUBLISHER,

31 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



SUBSCRIPTIONS 



The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.



Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.



Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written terms of interest from their respective localities.







VOLUME II.

W

ITH the present number, the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER enters upon its second year. In accordance with the expressed desire of a large number of our readers, the form of the paper has been so changed as to make it more convenient for binding. It will be noticed that while the size of the pages has been reduced, the number of them has been increased. We still find ourselves short of reading space, however, owing to our rapidly increasing advertising patronage, and shall probably find it necessary to again increase the number of pages. We regret that for lack of space, several interesting articles intended for publication in this number have to be held over. Other changes, designed to improve the appearance of the journal, appear in the present number, and are of a character, we trust, to meet with the appreciation of our readers. We had something to say last month about the favor bestowed upon this journal during the first year of its existence. We are now in a position to state that during the last month nine-tenths of the advertisers whose contracts expired with the close of Volume I, renewed them for the present year, and in addition, sufficient new contracts were made to increase considerably the average business done last year. Since the announcement was made of our intention to publish the "Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book" as a premium to new subscribers to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, many subscriptions have been received daily from all parts of the Dominion. With such an encouraging prospect before us, we can have no doubt of the permanent success of this journal, and shall in every way Possible endeavor to make it worthy of the generous support accorded it. Many architects and others of our readers have materially assisted to promote its interests during the past year, by making reference to it as the source of their information when writing to firms whose advertisements they have seen in these pages. We trust that during 1889, the assistance given us in this direction will be much more general It is a pleasure to observe the constant increase in the number of persons who contribute information of one kind or another adapted to the needs of our readers, through the medium of these pages. Such contributions, when of practical value, written concisely and to the point, will be ever welcome.







I

NVITATIONS have been issued for a "Conversazione" under the auspices of the <assoc>Canadian Society of Civil Engineers</assoc>, to take place in Montreal on the evening of the 17th inst.



T

HE City Solicitor of London, Ont., has given it as his opinion that the Local Board of Health has no power to compel the Water Commission to lay a water main in any part of the city. In consequence of this decision, it is said, the children attending one of the public schools are compelled to drink from a filthy well. Under such circumstances the validity of the Solicitor's opinion should at once be tested, and if found to be legal, application should be made to the Legislature on behalf of Local Boards of Health for power to compel compliance with conditions necessary to the prevention of disease.



W

E are pleased to notice that harmony of feeling and interest between the architects and members of the <assoc>Builders' Exchange, of London</assoc>, Ont., appears to have been completely restored. In celebration of such a desirable consummation, the architects, builders and contractors of the city banquetted together the other evening and voted each other "jolly good fellows," which nobody will deny. We hope and believe that in future the parties to the recent dispute will be able to see eye to eye, and work harmoniously together for their mutual interest and the progress and prosperity of the city.



A

 CORRESPONDENT, writing from Montreal, calls attention to the fact that while Canadian architects very reasonably and properly complain of the conduct of those who, passing by native talent, give the designing and construction of their buildings into the hands of foreign architects, they are themselves in many instances guilty of equally unpatriotic conduct, inasmuch as they specify materials of foreign manufacture in preference to those produced in the Dominion. Our correspondent makes a point when he states, that if Canadian architects lead their clients to believe that materials of Canadian manufacture are necessarily inferior to those of foreign countries, they should not be surprised if in course of time their clients become educated up to the idea that Canadian architects must also be inferior to those of other countries. We hope that the practice of which our correspondent complains is by no means a

