<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 

December, 1889



there is no doubt but that the confidence which is now extended to individual members of the profession would be extended in varying degree to all.

In England and upon the Continent of Europe there are buildings which have stood for three or four, aye six or seven centuries, and which command the attention and admiration of the most highly cultivated taste of the present day. Very few of the buildings now erected in Canada have a life of half a century, let alone five or six centuries, and the fact ought to bring a blush to the cheek of every true Canadian. The stone, brick and other building materials at our disposal are quite equal to those used in the buildings referred to. The mechanical powers and scientific knowledge of our artisans and professional men will compare favorably with those of the older countries and past ages. And I am confident that the leading men of the profession in Ontario need not be found wanting either, in purity of design or executive ability should they be called into exercise.

The proposed Act of Incorporation which you have before you, when it becomes law, will enable the public to distinguish between the qualified and unqualified practitioner, and it also provides opportunities for education for the coming generations of architects such as few of us here present have enjoyed, so that a new era in Canadian Art may be looked for, and our children and children's children will proudly point to a Canadian Architecture worthy of the name, as the result of our united effort in securing the incorporation of our profession.

Shall we then remain content to see architecture in its present condition, or shall we rise as one man to set matters right? We are not so optimistic as to suppose that, without much discussion and some compromise, we shall be unanimous upon any scheme, in which so many interests are concerned but let us endeavor in dealing with this great question, affecting as it does the common good of a great profession, to sink differences of opinion, recollecting the wise saying that "a man who is more than himself, who is part of an institution, who has devoted himself to a cause, expands to the scope and fullness of the larger organization ; and the grander the organization the larger and more important the unit that knows that he belongs to it. His thoughts are wider, his interests less selfish, his ambitions ampler and nobler. As a granite block is to the atoms of which it is composed when disintegrated, so are men in organic combination to the same men only aggregated together." A great profession makes great men. Immediately our Act of Incorporation comes into force the compulsory education of the entire profession commences, and the imperfectly qualified men will be stimulated to self-improvement by increasing competition with the better educated, and will be gradually supplanted by a race of cultivated practitioners.

It therefore behooves every member of the Association to exercise all diligence, and strain every nerve to secure the passing of the Act in its entirety. In this connection I wish earnestly to impress upon the individual members of the Association the necessity of securing the active interest and co-operation of their parliamentary representatives, It is also incumbent on us to endeavor by the strictest code of professional honor and esprit de corps in dealing one with another or with the public, to command that respect and esteem which should be inseparable from the name of Architect.

In conclusion I wish as President of this Association to tender my cordial thanks to the executive officers and directorate for their prompt attendance at all meetings, and for their ready and kindly advice on all matters affecting the interests of our Association, as should we succeed in carrying the measure during the coming session it will most probably be due in a very great measure to their earnestness and indefatigable efforts."

<person>Mr Burke </person>moved that the following telegram be sent to the joint convention of <assoc>American Institute of Architects </assoc>and <assoc>Western Association of Architects </assoc>at Cincinnati

'The first annual convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>now assembled sends greeting to the joint convention of the American Institute of Architects and Western Association of Architects, and hopes the fusion of the societies will result in a great advancement of the interests of the profession on this continent.'

Mr. Durand seconded the motion, which was carried.

The Secretary read the report of the Board of Directors, as follows:

SECRETARY'S REPORT.



GENTLEMEN: I have begged hard to be allowed to dispense with a report because I feel myself so unqualified to address an audience—even upon the most promising subject—that I am confident that any attempt to deal with the dry details of a Secretary's Report can only result in your being excessively bored; but the Directors are a hard-hearted lot, and insist upon the report, so that the best I can do for you is to get down to ' hard pan" at once, and make the Report as short as possible.

63 architects responded to the call of the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Guild</assoc>, and attended the inaugural meeting held in the Queen's Hotel on the 21st of March last—just eight months ago to-day. Of this 63, 59 subsequently became members of the Association, 31 more joined during the month of grace provided for by <person>Mr. Balfour </person>motion, and one has since been elected in the ordinary manner provided by the By-laws. One member (<person>Mr. Stewart </person>of Hamilton) has since resigned, leaving us a present membership of 90.

So far as I can learn—and I have enquired in every quarter—there are about 20 others practising architecture in the province to a sufficient extent to entitle them to election as members, should they wish to become such. Over half of these have expressed sympathy with the movement, or stated their determination to join the Association, so that our Association contains 82 per cent, of the architects of this province, half of the remainder being favorably inclined to the movement. Or to put it in another way, 93 per cent, of the whole profession in the province are either niembers of the Association or in sympathy with the movement, with less than 1 per cent. in opposition, the views of the remaining 6 per cent. being unknown to us.

The membership of the Association is distributed as follows : Toronto,

43; Ottawa, 10; London, 6; Kingston, 5; Hamilton, 4; Woodstock, 3;

Peterboro', 2; Stratford, 2; Chatham, 2; and Brockville, Napanee,

Bowmanville, St. Catharines, Ridgetown, Port Arthur, Owen Sound,

St. Thomas, Barrie, Port Elgin, Whitby, Mount Forest and Guelph, one

each.

Four meetings of the full Board of Directors have been called, and the Toronto portion of the directorate or executive committee has held eight formal meetings, besides the numerous informal meetings, meetings of committees, &c, necessary in carrying on the business of the Association. So you see your Directors have not been idle or wanting in energy or interest where the welfare of the Association is concerned.

The preparation of the draft Act of Incorporation now before you has of course been the principal business in the hands of the Directors, but two or three other matters of less or more importance have received a share of their attention. Among them I may mention the attempt to place competitions upon a sounder and more equitable basis, because I noticed at the time that one of our newspapers placed the matter in a light altogether foreign to that intended by the Board. A Building Committee advertised for competitive designs for a building, limiting the cost to a sum that no architect having the slightest regard for his professional standing would think of attempting to build it for, and making other conditions calculated to prevent respectable men from competing. The Directors simply pointed Out the objectionable features to the advertisers and to the members of the Association, and advised the former to re-consider their conditions, with a view of making such alterations in them as would induce competent members of the profession to compete, in no way meriting the charge of attempting to boycott the public, brought against them by the paper referred to. But I must not enter into the question of competitions, as <person>Mr. Curry </person>intends reading to you a paper on the subject.

The efforts of the Directorate in another matter have been more successful, and I think we have reason to be proud of the collection of drawings we see around us. I question very much if there is an instance on record of an architectural society eight months old being in a position to hold such an exhibition. Yes, gentlemen, I have visited architectural exhibitions both in London and New York, and have no hesitation whatever in saying that I think many of the drawings upon our walls would have compared favorably with the best I saw in either of those places.

Before I sit down, I should like to express my sense of obligation to the members of the Board of Directors for the unfailing courtesy they have shown me, and the unwearied attention they have given to all matters concerning the interests of the Association, particularly to our President and to Mr. Curry, upon whose shoulders a large share of the work of drafting the Act has fallen.

I should also like to say that I have had considerable correspondence with Mr. <person>Hugh Roumieu </person>Gough, the late President of the <assoc>Society of Architects, London, England</assoc>, and leader of the movement towards Registration in the mother country, through whose courtesy we have been furnished with copies of the Acts. I feel that we owe him a deep debt of gratitude, not alone for the particular courtesies be has shown us in this matter, but also for the services be has rendered the profession at large, as a pioneer in the cause of Registration.

To the pioneers in every cause tending to the benefit of humanity. the individuals aud communities sharing such benefits owe everything ; for if there were no pioneers there would be no progress, and without progress there would be no civilization ; so that it is by men of this class, by these men with active, expansive minds and large views of life, these pioneers, that the history of states and nations is made.

The Treasurer read his financial statement:



ABSTRACT OF CASH ACCOUNT TO 31ST OCTOBER, 1889.

	RECEIPTS.	Dr.

To subscriptions for first financial year, to 31st October, 1889,

	eighty-nine members	-	-	- -	$445 00

Subscription for second year, to 31st October, 1890, one member	5 00

	$450 00

	DISBURSEMENTS.	Cr.

By <firm>Cook & Bunker, </firm>for rubber stamp	- -	- $ 2 00

<firm>	Hart & Co., </firm>stationery, etc,		-	 -		- 38 

	<person>C. H. Mortimer</person>, printing	 -		-	-	 -		17	00

<firm>	Curry Bros</firm>., "	-	-	  -		-		6	50

	Postages - -	-		-	-	  -		2	00

	Balance in hank					-	$368 85

	Balance in Treasurer's hands -				-		15 10	383	95

	$450 00



<person>Mr. Durand </person>moved "That the thanks of this Association are due to Mr. <person>Hugh Gough</person>, Secretary of the Association of British Architects, London,

