14

January, 1889

I

<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	



<article title="A Sample of English Decoration" author="">A SAMPLE OF ENGLISH DECORATION.

A

 RECENTLY decorated apartment in London, which is about eighteen by fifteen, and some eleven feet high, has

no moulded enrichment on either walls or ceiling, but is treated entirely with painted decoration, the color scheme of which is full of cheerful yet refined harmony.

The walls are divided in panels and stiles, reaching from skirting to cornice. The panels are flatted a delicate tone of warm or French grey, and the surrounding stiles in a contrasting tint of greenish grey. Enriched marginal mouldings and corners in "light and shade" of old-gold color, frame each panel, while a fine inner line of pure white further helps the border and assists to the appreciation of the surrounding colors.

Each panel is occupied by a masterly-painted cupid in various aerial attitudes, in direct interpretation of Mr. <person>Ruskin</person>'s ideal— less his "vines and trellis-work "—of drawing-room decoration. In the interposing stiles of the panels a staff of gold color supported from a conventional head, is painted in combination with flowers, etc., by which means the balance is firmly preserved, whilst the hanging ribbons and encircling flowers are painted in the usual natural colors, subservient to the harmony of the entire composition of such detail. Beyond a small gold color star, placed in the top, horizontal style, immediately over each cupid, no further ornamentation of the former, is presented.

The design of ceiling consists of a large centre having a sky (Italian) painted thereon, with birds and butterflies relieving the mass of sky treatment. In each of the four pairs of side panels harmonious groups of flowers in natural colors are painted on the ground of French grey, which is common to the color of the wall panels. The stiles surrounding the side panels are in vellum with stenciled rosettes of gold color. The space between the panels last mentioned and the ceiling centre panel is in quiet buff, with the lines and ornamental breaks in flat ornament of gold color. A relief framing, also of gold color, is painted to the large centre, and the four corner medallions and an external stile of the green-grey as used on walls, surrounds the whole design.

In the corner medallions are represented the four seasons, by allegorical studies of female heads, painted in natural color against blue background.

Marginal lines of old gold and subdued blue are used generally throughout the ceiling, and the remaining detail of ornament connected therewith is rendered flat and in gold color.

The cornice is finished in greys, vellum, and white, assisted with a little gold and positive color.

The woodwork is finished in flatting and decorated as follows:

The panels of door, etc., are left with a background of vellum color; the stiles and remaining wood work in the green grey tint used for the wall stiles. Upon the top long panels of the door, which has four panels, ornament somewhat similar to that on the wall stile is painted in a highly finished manner, whilst the lower panels are occupied with representations of musical instruments usual to the Italian style. The panel mouldings are finished in the French grey, and part gilded, by which introduction of gold the panels are effectively framed, and additional richness given to the door in its entirety.



An Ottawa dispatch of the 10th inst. says: Messrs. <person>T. Turnbull</person>and <person>W. C. Trotter</person>, of Montreal, interviewed Hon. Mr. <person>Bowell</person> to-day on behalf of the Standard Drain Pipe Co. of St. Johns, Que. to urge a change from ad valorem to specific duties on certain classes of drain pipes which now bear a duty of 35 per cent. Ad valorem, on the ground of fraud and undervaluation, and in order to keep out of Canada what has proved to be an inferior article.



A Pittsburgh man has invented a glass conduit which he thinks solves the problem of underground electric wires. Plates of glass are grooved on the upper surface, and the wires are laid in the grooves and cemented with pitch. Then other plates of glass are laid over the first, and wires put upon them in the same way. When all the wires are laid the whole is inclosed in a wooden box and embedded in cement

<article title="The Sewer Pipe Controversy" author="">THE SEWER PIPE CONTROVERSY.

T

 he Canadian Manufacturer, in its anxiety to make a point against this journal and in the hope of securing an extra advertisement or two for its pages, assumes, unasked, the position of a modern Falstaff in defence of the manufacturers of Canadian Sewer Pipe, who, when occasion demands, are abundantly able to defend themselves, It is apparent from the manner in which our contemporary misrepresents our position, which we so clearly defined on a previous occasion, that it has no intention of carrying on its part of the discussion with conscientious fairness. For this reason, and because we should be loth to deprive our Fallstaffian neighbors satisfaction he evidently finds in knocking down men of straw which he has himself set up, we shall leave him to his unenviable occupation. The following extract from a letter received a few days ago from the President of the <firm>Standard Drain Pipe Company, of St. Johns, Que</firm>., shows (1) that the parties most deeply interested in this controversy, the Canadian Sewer Pipe Manufacturers, admit the fairness of the treatment accorded to them by this journal, and (2) that their would-be champion has not only spent his labor for naught, but made himself ridiculous into the bargain

ST. Johns, Q., Dec. 1, 1888.

C.H. MORTIMER, ESQ,



Dear Sir,—- * * 1 am much obliged to you for having given me an opportunity to plead our cause in the columns of your paper, and the explanation of the stand you took is satisfactory. Probably being so much interested in the question 1 did not fairly weigh it at first. Wishing you the compliments of the season and increased prosperity,

Yours faithfully,



<person>W. C. TROTTER</person>,"





Black Rock, Dec. 20th, 1888

Editor CANADIAN Architect AND Builder



I

N the December number of your paper a paragraph appeared headed Thickness of Sewer Pipes. The opinion of Engineer Rust is given as to proper thickness, etc., and he is also quoted as saying that the American pipe at present in use in Toronto is hardly up to this standard. This is no doubt true as to most of the pipes being used in your city, as but little of our pipe has been used this season, hut we wish to state that our make is fully up to Mr. <person>Rusts </person>standard of thickness, as the samples in the City Engineer's office will show. Will you kindly give this the same prominence in your next issue as the above quoted article had in the December number, both in justice to ourselves and the dealers who have favored us with their

orders. Yours very truly,

	<person>N.	C. BARNUM</person>,

		Secretary <firm>Buffalo Sewer Pipe Co</firm>.



<article title="To Make a Drawing Board that will not Warp" author="Maginnis, Owen B.">TO MAKE A DRAWING BOARD THAT WILL NOT WARP.

726 121St STREET, N. Y. City. December 21st, 1888.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Sir—in answer to the request of <person>Mr. Baillarge</person>, for a board which will not be likely to warp, I submit the following, It is made of three 1/4 inch thickness' of pine and butternut, laid alternately as follows:

The middle thickness is first either glued together in four 12 inch widths of pine with square edges, or in narrow 2 inch widths of 3/8 inch tongued and grooved stuff, then the bottom layer glued on diagonally, as shown





Fig.1 

in the sketch I send enclosed. When this is perfectly set, the top layer can be glued on. After the glue has set, the whole ought to be cleaned off perfectly out of wind and straightened across so that a chalked straight edge 

