	



<doctype type="text;plate"> SUB-SURFACE IRRIGATION DRAINAGE <article title="Sub-Surface Irrigation Drainage" author="Burke, Edmund">SUB-SURFACE IRRIGATION DRAINAGE

By Edmund Burke



THE disposal of liquid or semi-liquid house wastes in localities destitute of sewers has been for many years a very serious problem, and more especially since civilized communities have become awakened to the necessity of sanitary reform.

In the "good old days" when the yard well was the nearest approach to a plumbing appliance, the housewife was content to throw the kitchen slops on the ground near the back door and sometimes very near the well, oblivious of the fact that the filth laden water eventually found its way into the said well, greatly to the danger of the health of the household.

A step backward was the rough stone drain leading oftentimes nowhere, each crevice holding decaying filth, the whole becoming an elongated cesspool.

Then as plumbing appliances began to be introduced, and when no convenient water course was at hand, the leaching cess-pool was introduced, built of uncemented brick or stone and poisoning the ground with its foul filterings, generating death dealing gases, often bottled up, with their only outlet through trapless or defective fixtures.

The method of disposing of house wastes by the sub-surface irrigation system, was developed

in England some 25 years since by Rev. <person>Henry Moule</person>, and was introduced into America by Col. <person>Geo. E. Waring</person>, of Newport, some years later.

The system consists in the intermittent flow and distribution of liquid sewage through open

jointed porous tiles (known to us  as weeping drains), into the

soil at from 9 in. to 18 inches below the surface of the ground, and at intervals of about 6 feet. 'These pipes should be laid in rows, like a gridiron, It is necessary that these pipes should have just sufficient fall to prevent the liquids running too rapidly to the ends of the drains and thus gorging them at these points, and causing periodical eruptions of filthy water to the surface.

At the same time, the fall should be sufficient to carry the water into and along every branch, whence it will find its way evenly and rapidly into the ground a fall of about one half an inch in so feet has been found to best meet these requirements.

For the success of this system it is necessary to provide : 1st. a settling tank 2nd, a flush tank, and third, that the ground shall have the proper slope and lie drained either naturally or artificially.

The settling tank is necessary for the first reception of the sewage, especially where foecal matters and deposits of grease have to be dealt with, This tank should be built of hard brick, built in cement, and plastered with the

material both inside and out. It should be extended to the surface, coped with stone, and having a durable hinged and padlocked iron lid. It has been found that time bulk of the more solid portions of the household wastes becomes reduced to liquid pulp in a few days and passes off without choking the drains.

The mouth of the outlet drain should dip several inches below the surface to prevent the entry of floating grease or solids. The tank should lie of capacity sufficient for all possible demands—at the same time it should not be so large as to contain an undue amount of filth—better that it should lie smaller and more frequently emptied.

An examination is required only at long intervals for the removal of possible accumulations of grease, the greatest enemy to the continuous working of any drainage system.

The flush tank is necessary to create the intermittent flow before mentioned. This tank should be of size sufficient to store and retain the accumulating wastes till the previous discharge has had time to become thoroughly absorbed by the ground. Its size should also approximate the combined capacity of the discharge pipes, so that the whole system will be filled at one discharge of the tank.

The ground should be carefully leveled off to a fall equal to that required for the drains, so that when laid they shall all be, as nearly as possible, at an equal distance from the surface.

If the soil is loamy or gravelly and a few feet higher than a water course or depression it will not require under-drainage. If heavy clay, retaining surface waters, it will. Some sandy soils are too porous, and some clay soils too retentive, and when such is the case the lacking constituents can be supplied at a comparatively small expense. When the above requirements are taken into consideration it will be seen that considerable judgment will be called for, and that perfect success may not crown the first attempt. 

<person>Dr. Pinkham</person>, of Montclair, N. J., who, with others of that town has given the system a thorough test, says : When organic matter is absorbed into the soil near the surface, as provided for by this system of sub-surface irrigation, coming in contact as it does, in a state of minute subdivision, with the air and condensed oxygen contained in the porous soil, it undergoes a rapid oxidation. The change which takes place is in every essential particular equivalent to that of combustion. The organic matter thus treated is just as much destroyed as if it was burnt, and the resulting products are as harmless as the products of combustion of wood or coal. Soil which has been used in this way for many years has been found to be but little changed, the liquid resultants of disintegration having evaporated or become absorbed by the roots of plants, while the solid resultants which remain, but slightly (and not in any essential particular,) differ from the original constituents of the soil."

  Dr. Pinkham, again, quoting Sehubler, says: "The earth possess the remarkable property of absorbing oxygen gas from the atmospheric air, a phenomenon pointed out many years ago by <person>A. Von Humboldt</person>. This property of the earth is confirmed almost with out exception, provided they be employed for this purpose in a moist state. In the experiment which he instituted, exposing one thousand grains of different earths for thirty days in vessels of 15 inches cubic contents (15 inches of air containing 3.12 inches of oxygen) he found that sandy loam absorbed 5.39 inches of oxygen, clay loam absorbed 1.65 inches, and garden mould 2.60 inches."

With regard to the quantity of land required for the system, Col. Waring recommends an area of 250 square feet to each person. Allowing the house-hold a consumption of 300 gallons per day, will give 3 gallons of sewage to 25 square feet of ground. If we assume a depth of only 4 feet for soakage, this will give us 100 cubic feet of earth to filter and absorb 3 gallons of water per day.

In the experience of those who have used the system it has, when properly constructed, been a complete success.

Col. Waring says: "Seven years ago last October, when I built my present house, I applied this method there in the most thorough way, and have been watching it with great care with a view to what I might learn from it from that time to this. I do not hesitate to pronounce it absolutely perfect. 

I am satisfied that it affords relief which is open to every one who has even a little bit of ground adjoining his house. I would say, by the bye, that I have no water-closets in the establishment we use earth closets only so that my experiment has not been complicated by that element, At the same time there is no practical difficulty; there is no reason why that may not be taken care of as well as the other. The water settles through the soil, thus finding an outlet, and the soil through which it passes filters out the foul matters. Immediately the water passes away, fresh air enters front the surface, and by the well-known concentrated oxidizing power of porous matters, whether powdered earth or whatever it may be, an entire decomposition is effected of this foreign matter, so much so that after five years, there being, from defec-

