



<doctype type="text;ad">PIANOS.

"An honest tale speeds best being plainly told, '—Shakespeare.







The Story of the Wonderful Success of the



MASON & RISCH PIANO

needs no embellishments of fiction to make it convincing. Plain facts, potent in their eloquence, have afforded a fund of reasons why success has crowned the endeavors of Messrs. <firm>Mason & Risch </firm>to an extent far beyond their original expectations.

The history of their progress from the date of the manufacture of their first instrument twelve years ago to the present time has been a record of continued triumphs.

Are you contemplating the purchase of a Piano?

We'll not tell you that it's to your interest to buy a "Mason & Risch," but place before you some facts, simple, plain facts. If the eloquence of logical arguments and the testimony of in comparable authorities, if comparison side by side with the instruments of the world's most famous manufacturers, if such tests applied honestly and with out prejudice weigh with you, then shall we confidently rest our case with you.

You'll find our warerooms at

No. 32 King St. West.

No 653 Queen St. West.





MASON & RISCH

<article title="The Law as to Party Walls" author="">THE LAW AS TO PARTY WALLS.

A

 PARTY wall in law is a wall dividing lands of different proprietors, used in common for the support of structures on both sides. At common law an owner who erects a wall for his own buildings which is capable of being used by an adjoining proprietor, cannot compel such proprietor, when he shall build next to it, to pay for any portion of the cost of such wall. On the other hand, the ad joining proprietor has no right to make any use of such wall without consent of the owner, and the consequence may be the erection of two walls side by side, when one would answer all purposes.

This convenience is often secured by an agreement to erect a wall for common use, one-half on each other's land, the parties to divide the expense. If only one is to build at the time, he gets a return from the other party of half what it cost him. Under such an agreement each has an easement in the land of the other while the wall stands, and this accomplishes the title in sales and de scent. But if the wall is destroyed or decayed by accident, the easement is gone, unless such contingency is provided for by a deed.

Repairs to party walls are to be borne equally ; but if one has occasion to strengthen or improve them for a more extensive building than at first contemplated, he cannot compel the other to divide the expense with him. In some states there are statutes regulating the rights in party walls, and one may undoubtedly acquire rights, by prescription, on a wall built by another, which he has long been allowed to use for the sup port of his own structure.—Building News.



<article title="Electricity for Heating" author="">ELECTRICITY FOR HEATING.

T

HE inventor who succeeds in making a practical application of electric heating, says Modern Light and Heat, will not be at a loss to find abundant employment for his device. Although nearly all the inventors along this line have sought to make an electric heater which would primarily be suitable for the heating of railway cars, there is no reason why a successful heater of this kind should not have a much wider application, and come into general use. When the time comes—and it surely is coming— when electric heat can be developed for heating buildings at a cost comparable with other methods of heating now employed, the commercial distribution of electric heat will become an industry second only to that of electric light and power. When our offices, parlors and drawing rooms can be warmed with no other effort on our part than the turning of a switch, when our meals may be pre pared on an electric cooking "stove" we shall have reached a point of maximum utility, convenience and cleanliness in heating as we already have in our arrangements for lighting. The abolition from dwelling houses of the ordinary bulky

