<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN A RCHITECT 



surprise to an architect to get a bid ten, twenty and sometimes thirty per cent. below the highest offered, which may have been about the figure at which he thought the work could be completed. The architect is again as much disturbed in his reasoning when bids are put in far in excess of his original estimate of the cost of the work. As there seems to be more or less guess work used in the process of figuring by contractors, the architect's only recourse is to make the best guess he can and trust to luck to have it approximated by the lowest and best bidder.



<article title="The Relation of an Architect Towards his Client" author="Stalker, G.F.">THE RELATION OF AN ARCHITECT TOWARDS HIS

CLIENT.

BY G. F. STALKER.



A

N architect's duties, and the position he occupies are, as compared with the duties and position of other professional men, somewhat ill-understood. Everybody knows that a doctor has to give his whole attention to his patient, and that a lawyer has to attend solely to the interests of his client. Any divergence from these well-understood lines of practice would bring discredit upon either doctor or lawyer. If any friction should occur in the prosecution of their professional duties, it is usually because the patient will not carry out the instructions of his doctor, or because the client assumes a greater knowledge of the law than his legal adviser. But in either of these cases there is no third party to interpose any objection to this or that course of action.

In this respect the architect is placed in a different, and less agreeable position. It is true he is engaged by his client to do certain work, and by his client he is paid for doing it ; and so far a position of servitude is imposed upon him. But in carrying out his client's business a third party has to be dealt with, who, in the course of a few hours after the commencement of building operations, has vested interests in the matter which must be considered. And at this stage of proceedings the architect, like Desdemona, perceives "a divided duty "—a divided duty, however, which can be faithfully performed towards both parties, provided they all understand the relation in which they stand to one another.

It will therefore be of no small advantage if the relationship of the three parties is clearly defined. As the architect is as it were the central figure in the trio, it will best serve this purpose if in this paper a statement is given of the relation in which an architect stands towards his client, and, in a subsequent paper, the relation in which an architect stands towards the contractor. By this means the mutual relationship of the three parties will be better understood.

As a rule when a client seeks the advice and services of an architect, he has what may be termed a clearly indefinite idea of his own requirements. And it is here, at the very outset, that an architect has to call into activity all the tact and diplomacy with which he is gifted. By cross-examination, careful angling, leading suggestions, any process in fact which the circumstances may require, he must sift his client so as to ascertain his purposes in regard to the building he proposes to erect. This done, he must give them shape, and in doing so he must be guided more by his own knowledge and experience than by any suggestions his client may have given him. These in many instances will be found to be altogether impracticable, or entirely contrary to the general arrangements intended to be carried out. At the same time there are few men who have not some peculiarity, "fads" if you will, which they consider almost essential to their comfort, or to the purpose of their building. The architect must of course give such emphasis and force to any particular leanings of his client as the case may require. But he must carefully guard against what he knows to be extravagances or excresences. The probability is that the client wants more for his contemplated outlay than it is possible to give him and it will only result in disappointment and vexation if the architect does not from the first take hold of the reins in the matter of expenditure. And this is a point on which architects seldom have justice done them. The opinion prevails that, because an architect's remuneration for his services is based on the cost of the building, it is to his interest to run up expenses. That looks feasible and natural. But does it not seem more feasible and

more natural, that he will exercise all his knowledge of the science of construction and art of architecture to accomplish the greatest results, with the least possible outlay? It must surely be evident to every man that this is at once the most honorable, and the most profitable course for an architect to pursue.

Having then, by illustrations and sketches, established a mutual understanding between himself and his client, as to the requirements of the latter, the architect must now prepare the contract drawings. This, indeed, forms the most important part of his work, for with the specifications, the contract drawings constitute the common standing ground to be occupied by the client, architect and contractor. They set forth what the client is to receive, and what the contractor is to give for a stipulated sum of money, and what the architect is to require for his client at the hands of the contractor. It is therefore of the utmost importance that they should be prepared with the greatest care, and that in developing the ideas interchanged in the earlier stages of the proceedings, the limits of size and cost should not be exceeded. Up to this point the architect has been acting wholly in his client's interests, as indeed he will continue to do until the building is completed; but, hitherto, without any disturbance to their mutual harmony arising by the presence of a third party. The contractor is still unknown to him, and a stranger. But when the contract is signed and operations have commenced, then the contractor becomes an important factor in all subsequent arrangements. It is then that the architect occupies very much the same position as a judge. He must act with the most scrupulous impartiality between his client and the contractor. On his client's behalf he must guard against any work being done or material being used in his building that is of a quality inferior to what has been specified and contracted for. He must see that the design and specifications that have been approved and signed in good faith, are in as good faith carried out. And if, in the progress of the building, anything should occur to him that will beneficially or economically affect it, it will be his duty to consult with anti advise his client thereupon. In short, he must see that his client gets, what he may reasonably have been expected to get, both of the contractor's labor, material and skill, and of his own time, experience and ability, for the amount of money he has agreed to pay for them. But, on the other hand, he must also prevent his client from imposing work upon the contractor which has not been agreed upon, or of requiring of him a superior quality of materials than has been stipulated for. Fair dealing,—the most absolutely fair dealing,—must be the distinguishing characteristic of an architect in the conduct of his business. An unfair man is not fit to hold such a position.

Then, in the settlement of the building accounts, the principle of fairness and impartiality must dominate the action of an architect, always keeping in view, of course, the nature of the agreement which has been entered into between the client and the contractor. This agreement (with the drawings and specifications,) now forms the basis of settlement. For so much money the contractor has agreed to perform so much work in such and such a manner. If no change has taken place in the design, and if the labor and material have been satisfactory, then all that remains for the architect to do is to put his name to the account and request his client to pay it. But experience shows that in building, as in everything else, we cannot proceed very far without having to reckon with the law of change. And if changes have taken place, as in all probability they have, the architect will have been very remiss in his duty if he has not kept his client informed of them, and of the additional cost they are likely to entail upon him. In the majority of cases it is true the changes in a building during its progress are suggested by the client himself. But a variety of circumstances may arise which demand that alterations be made ; and which being in the interest of his client, an architect has power to make. Still, these must be reported to the client if an architect will faithfully perform his duty and avoid the irksomeness and unpleasantness of a disagreement over the settlement of the accounts. If, however, the architect has kept his client "posted" as to the changes that have taken place, he must be careful now

