<doctype type="colophon;text">VOL. 11.—No XII.	TORONTO, CANADA, DECEMBER, 1889.	PRICE 20 $2.00 CENTS

		YEAR,



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED ON THE 15TH OF EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MOR TIMER Publisher,

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



SUB SCRIPTIONS

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANti BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance, The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEM ENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS,

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the '' Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.



A

 CONSIDERABLE amount of correspondence and other interesting matter intended for publication in this number is unavoidably held over for lack of space. It will appear in our issue for January. 



A

S we go to press we learn that the award has been made in the competition for designs for the <building>Sun Life Insurance Company Building, Montreal </building>proposed new building at Montreal. The first prize, the supervision of the erection of the work, is given to <person>Mr. Findlay</person>, of Montreal ; the second prize of $300, third prize of $200, and fourth prize of $100, to Messrs. <person>Thomas</person>, Montreal, <person>McLea Walbank</person>, Montreal, and <firm>James & James, </firm>Toronto, respectively. Fifteen architects entered the competition, 11 from Montreal, 3 from Toronto, and 1 from Hamilton. Mr. <person>William Knox</person>, of Toronto, was the expert.



S

EVERAL architectural students have asked us to define more clearly the requirements of some of the competitions in the series announced in our October and November issues. We have accordingly revised the specifications, With the result we trust, of removing any ambiguity Which might have formerly existed. We would urge intending competitors to note carefully the instructions regarding the manner in which drawings should be prepared. The design Which took first place in the last competition, was so badly drawn that we could not have illustrated it if we had so desired. The lines must be drawn firm, heavy and open, in order to allow of the drawing being reduced,



T

HE close of Volume II of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Is reached with the present issue. We have aimed to make each succeeding number in this volume more

valuable than its predecessors. If we may judge of the Success of our efforts by the increase in number of our subscribers and advertisers during the last year, we certainly can have no reason to complain, for the support received from both sources has been of a most liberal character. Representatives of this journal have personally visited during the year almost every city and town of importance in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. As a consequence, our subscription list embraces every architect of prominence and a large proportion of the leading contractors in the provinces mentioned. Under such circumstances, we feel encouraged to press forward in the hope of attaining to a much higher standard in the year upon which we are about to enter. As most of our readers are aware, we have issued the initial number of a weekly intermediate sheet called the CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD, the regular publication of which will be commenced in February. The object of this intermediate number is to supply contractors and supply men with advance information regarding contracts open to tender. The value of this publication will perhaps be better understood when it is stated that the members of the Ontario Association of Architects, comprising upwards of 80 per cent. of the architects throughout the Province, passed a resolution at their recent convention pledging themselves to insert all advertisments calling for " tenders " in this medium. The information thus supplied will be augmented by that obtained through correspondents located in every part of the Dominion It is proposed to send this intermediate number to

every subscriber of the CANADIAN ARCH ITECT AND BUILDER free of charge. A classified list of advertisers in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will also receive gratuitous publication therein. Those who have not seen the prospectus of this new publication, are invited to send a postal card to this office for free copy, from which they may obtain all necessary information concerning the purpose it is designed to serve, We close the present volume by heartily wishing every reader the Compliments of the Season.





M UCH of our space in this issue is given up to a report in ail of the proceedings of the first annual Convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects, </assoc>held in Toronto on Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 20th and 21St. Those who were present on that occasion will not need to be informed that the Convention was a highly successful one. Those not present, hut who may peruse the report appearing in these pages, will, we doubt not, also arrive at that conclusion, and regret that they had no share in such a pleasant and profitable meeting. The weather was unpropitious, which perhaps kept some of the members at home, although we would hesitate to accept this as a justifiable excuse for their non-attendance. Every member of the Ontario Association of Architects should have the interest of his profession sufficiently at heart to attend once a year a meeting designed to promote its advancement, We commend this view to those members—comprising upwards of one-third of the total membership—who were conspicuous only by their absence, and especially the few Toronto members whose eager Pursuit of the "Almighty Dollar ii appears to have pre

