

<doctype type="text">ELECTION OF OFFICERS.

The election of officers was proceeded with by ballot, Messrs. Duck and Bousfield acting as scrutineers. The election resulted as follows :— President, Mr. <person>W. G. Storm </person>(unanimously.)

Vice Presidents—Mr. <person>Geo. F. Durand, </person>London; Mr. <person>James Balfour</person>, Hamilton ; Mr. <person>King Arnoldi</person>, Ottawa.

Secretary,— Mr. <person>S. H. Townsend</person>, (unanimously), Treasorer,—Mr. <person>D. B. Dick</person>, (unanimously).

Directors, Messrs. <person>E. Burke</person>, Toronto; <person>Joseph Powers</person>, Kingston; <person>S. G. Curry. </person>Toronto; <person>D. Ewart, </person>Ottawa; <person>J. E. Belcher</person>, Peterboro.

Moved by Mr. Durand seconded by Mr. Wilson, that the auditors be Messrs. H. Langley and <person>W. R. Gregg</person>. Carried.

This concluded the proceedings and the Convention adjourned sine die.

THE BANQUET.

'The visiting architects were entertained by the Toronto architects at a banquet in Harry Webb's restaurant, on Thursday evening, Nov. 21st. An excellent menu was provided. The President, Mr. W. G. Storm occupied the chair, and around him was a large representation of the Association, as well as several members of other professions.

The substantial part of the evening's entertainment having been disposed of, the Chairman called upon the company to honour the Queen by loyally drinking her health. This was followed by the singing of the National Anthem.

The Chairman announced that the next toast would be "The Ontario School of Engineering.' and that <person>Prof. Galbraith </person>would respond.

Prof. Galbraith replied that the toast was one with which he was very familiar. After conveying his thanks to those present for the hearty way in which it hid been received, he said he was glad to be able to tell those present that the additions to the School of Science were being rapidly proceeded with. They expected in two or three weeks to have the building roofed. There was, therefore, a good chance of the building being ready for occupation early next year. The work proposed to be done in the building was somewhat as follows : There was to be an extension of the Civil Engineering Department, a new department of Mechanical Engineering to be established, and a School or Department of Architecture. These were the three branches that would be provided for in the new school. At present the work in the Civil Engineering Department consisted simply in lecturing, with a certain amount of experimental work that was useful in professional engineering, but was not strictly professional work—such as chemistry, physics, electricity, light, heat, sound, etc. It was proposed to establish an Engineering Laboratory, which would be divided into two portions, one of which would be for the testing of the materials for construction—for testing the strength of iron and steel in various forms, and bricks and stones and ordinary materials used by engineers and architects. Again, there would be means of making other kinds of tests, such as comparing the efficiency of lubricating oils. Another feature would consist in an experimental steam engine and boiler from which experiments may be made in the measurement of power, fuel, etc. This engine would be capable of working under various conditions, and experiments would be made as to cost and power under the various conditions. These would be the principal portions of the new laboratory—it would be altogether for measuring and testing. In connection with it, there would be a small machine shop for the purpose of testing tools and making small repairs. It was not intended that this laboratory would give the student a practical knowledge of Engineering. For that they would insist upon every student spending at least one year in the ordinary shops. With reference to the architectural portion he had not giver) to it much thought, for the simple reason that he did not propose to do any special architectural work. He was not an architect, but lie took the portion of the work common to it and civil engineering. He was not prepared therefore to give details of what would be done. He fancied it would be something like this : He had from experience formed an opinion as to what should he taught in a professional school, and he had no doubt it would apply to Architecture. He had noticed in some schools an attempt being made to turn out professional men fully equipped for their profession. He did not believe that had proved a success. Only one thing and only one kind of training could make a practical man, and that was practical training. (Applause). There was no such thing as make-believe practice. There was a want of reality and a want of responsibility about it. After all, it was the feeling of responsibility that made the practical man. When he was held responsible, he felt the weight upon him, and he could not feel that responsibility in the school. A man might go through the most intricate problem in the school without feeling in any way the importance of it, whereas when he went out to practice he might be floored by the simplest problem because he was held responsible. He therefore thought it was a mistake for a school to attempt to complete the practical part of a man's education. The work which should he done in the professional school should be, to give the student that training which he would find necessary, and which he could not get from practice. In the architect's office a young man picked up a knowledge of the business only by learning the use of the instruments, drawing and planning. But he found that if he wanted to be a first-class man he must learn other things. He tried various kinds of self-study, but was unsuccessful. If he was a genius, he might get along all right, but the average man was not a genius. The school should supply this man's defects and provide him with just what he wanted. The

object of school training should be to enable the student to utilize to the best advantage all the knowledge lie can acquire from books and from other sources. In the' new department the general lines adopted by other Architectural Schools would he no doubt followed. No doubt they would be governed by local circumstances, and they would be happy to hear and consider all suggestions from the profession. (Applause.)

<person>Mr. Peters </person>sang "A Courting We Must Go."

Mr. S. U. Curry was called upon by the Chairman to introduce the next toast. He said it devolved upon him to propose the health of The Engineering Profession." With this was coupled the well known name of Mr. <person>Alan Macdougall</person>. What had just been heard from Prof. Galbraith would convince almost all that Engineering and Architecture were to a large extent allied. That gentleman evidently believed that a great deal could be taught in the Engineering Department that would be useful to architects. With that he (Mr. Curry) was entirely in accord. For the first two or three years, the two classes could go along together. There was no reason why the students should not attend the same class for some time. In time the Engineering student would reach work of a higher character in his own special line than was necessary for a student of Architecture, and there they would separate. Very few students of Architecture to-day had a thorough knowledge of the theoretical part of the business. Whatever knowledge the average student obtained, it was a sort of rule-of-thumb method. All they knew was that a certain thing was done in a certain way, and that was as far as their knowledge carried them. It was not sufficient to know that one building stood on a certain foundation, and to guess that all others could be supported in the same way. The fact that a building remained only showed that the material was capable of doing the work required of it. No material should be taxed more than one-third of its actual capacity, and it was necessary for an architect to know' what that capacity was. Prof. Galbraith was perfectly correct in saying that it would be impossible for a student to receive at school all the training necessary for practical work. Make-believe work was of little or no value. When a man was actually engaged in practical work, the responsibility compelled him to put forward his best efforts. The success of the new school would depend in a large measure upon the man appointed to the chair of Architecture. That man would have within his power the ability to do more for the profession than any fifty architects its this province, lie would have an influence which could only be calculated as time passes and as the work shows itself. He would have an influence not only in making capable men, but in training them in what was honorable and just to their fellow men. It was a difficult thing for a man who had been accustomed to look upon things in a commercial way, to realize what were his professional duties to others. If a student were properly trained in the school, he would endeavor when he came out to work in a way that would bring credit upon the profession. He hoped that the Architectural Department would have at its head a gentleman as capable to fill that position as the gentleman who now occupied the chair of Engineering in the school. (Applause.)

Mr. Alan Macdougall in replying to the toast, said he was more than gratified at the cordial way in which the toast had been received. The profession of Architecture was closely linked to that of Engineering. The dirty of the architect commenced, as the historian Ferguson had said, just where that of the engineer ended. The engineer gave strength to the structure, while the architect stepped in and added symmetrical proportions to the building. The one profession was indispensable to the other. The architect designed the building, and the engineer constructed the girders which were necessary for the carrying out of the plans. He had listened to Prof. Galbraith with much pleasure. He was more than pleased at the cordial reception which his remarks had met with lie knew that Mr. Curry had voiced the opinions of all present, and that it was the earnest desire of all to lift the profession out of the Slough of Despond. The magnificent work which Prof. Galbraith was doing in the School of Science was opening a new era for Engineering. Another important step was being now taken in the formation of the School of Architecture. The application for an Act of Incorporation, if successful, would give dignity to the profession. lie would gladly and willingly help them in this effort, and sincerely hoped they would be successful. He trusted that in the Association they would cultivate the student class, and wherever possible, assist the younger members. The question of professional education was one of great importance. In England a great deal was being done, and in America a great deal was being said upon the subject

The Chairman invited the company to drink to "The Sister Professions." Mr. J. W. Curry was called upon to reply, and said that on behalf of the legal profession, of which he was a member, and on behalf of the other learned professions, he thanked them for the honour they had done them. He was particularly interested in the new Association, from the fact that a near relative was a member, and the fact that he had had a good deal to do with the drawing tip of the proposed Act of Incorporation. lt had been a surprise to bins since he had come to consider it, that the architects of this province had not sooner recognized their rights and demanded them from the Legislature. The time had come for the profession of Architecture to take the same position is other professions. If the legislators of Ontario could see the present gathering, they could only arrive at the conclusion that such men were entitled to incorporation. There could be no doubt that in order that a profession should advance, the members of that pro

