<doctype type="text">February, 1889 	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	15



There are several reasons why pipe is preferable to brick for sewers of moderate diameter. Being salt-glazed, it is smoother than a brick sewer, and, unlike the latter, offers no obstruction to the flow of the sewage. It is not, like a brick sewer, porous, and consequently is less liable to leak. It will compare favorably in point of durability with brick. In conjunction with the various points of superiority mentioned, is the important consideration that a pipe sewer which can be laid for $4 per yard, will cost $6 per yard if laid with bricks. In other words, it will cost the citizens of Toronto about $25,000 more to construct the same number of miles of brick sewers as were constructed with pipes last year, and with no better results so far as the quality of the work is concerned. It remains to be seen with what grace the tax-payers will submit to such unwise expenditure.



This would seem to be a fitting place to remark that the time has come when the opinion of the City Engineer in matters of this kind should be supreme. If the City Engineer is a competent man, his opinion on such subjects should decide the course to be pursued. If he is not a competent man, and his  opinion is of less value than that of the aldermen whose adviser he is supposed to be, then the city might as well dispense with such a useless official and save the amount of his salary. We do not wish to be understood as casting any reflection upon the opinion abilities of the present City Engineer. We simply contend that as the head of the most important department of the city's affairs, his opinions should prevail, and not be subject to revision at the hands of the aldermen. Then, if it is found that the Engineer's opinions do not work out satisfactorily in practice, it is an easy matter to place the responsibility for mistakes where it properly belongs.





<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

OUR New York contemporary, the Manufacturer and Builder, has donned a new cover, pleasing in design and color, and in many other ways is showing evidences of enterprise and prosperity.

With the new year, Grip enters upon its thirty-second half-yearly volume, a fact which speaks eloquently for the merits of this unique and favorite Canadian journal. It stands to-day alongside of the very best productions of its class in the world, and enjoys a fame far beyond the bounds of Canada. To Canadians it ought to be more and more an object of patriotic pride. It is only two dollars a year, although the paper contains sixteen pages filled with bright original humor of pen and pencil, and always gives, without stint, political cartoons on passing events. Grip is now giving the <firm>Manhattan Art Company</firm>'s superbly engraved copy of <person>Rosa Bonheur </person>'s celebrated picture, "The Horse Fair," to all new subscribers.





<article title=" Correspondence - A Dominion Architectural Association" author=" Staveley, H.">A DOMINION ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION,

Quebec, Jan. 29, 1889

Editor Canadian Architect and Builder

Dear SIR.—Reading in your valuable journal of the <assoc>Architect's Guild of Toronto</assoc>, and of a proposal to form a Provincial Society of Architects, suggests a wider application of so excellent an idea in the formation of a Dominion Society, which might be made a most useful organization in advancing the interests of architects, and those of the profession as well. It is to be regretted that so far no Society exists for the bringing together of Canadian architects, or for the securing of any uniformity in practice, fees,

etc., nor for the systematic training of young architects. I hope the Toronto Guild may take hold of this matter. With the energy characterizing your



citizens generally applied in the direction I have hinted at, success I am sure would be certain.

Yours truly,

H. Staveley









Bruce & Thompson, of Glasgow, have been making some experiments on the pressure necessary to be acquired before lead pipes burst. Their results show dissimilar conditions for different sized pipes. The pipes used by the Glasgow water works are not selected by their strength or quality, but according to their weight per lineal yard. One-half inch pipe runs 7 lbs. per yard, and 1/2-inch pipes 24 lbs. per yard. In a 1/2-inch pipe the bursting pressure per square inch was found to be 1,820 lbs. In a 1/2-inch pipe the bursting pressure was 812 lbs. per square inch.

<article title=" Correspondence - A Winnipeg Competition" author="">A WINNIPEG COMPETITION.

Winnipeg, Feb. 7th, 1889.

Editor CANADIAN Architect	AND BUILDER.



You will see by the enclosed cutting from the Call, how the architectural profession is treated in this city

"A meeting of the market, license and health committee was held on Wednesday afternoon, <person>Ald. Currie</person>presiding. The time of the committee was wholly devoted to a discussion on the new city market building, and the aldermen expressed their opinions pretty freely. The principal point of contention was regarding the advisability of having a public hall in the building. The chairman strongly favored the public hall scheme, and expressed the opinion that it would pay the city at least ten per cent. on the investment. It was pointed out that if there was to be a public hall, the brick portion of the old market building saved from the fire could not be utilized, as had been proposed, but would have to be torn down. The cost of the new market if this was done, it was stated, would not be less than $25,000, while if the public hall scheme was abandoned and the building now standing utilized, the cost would not be more than $13,000. Finally it was decided to advertise for separate competitive plans and specifications with and without a public hall. The dimensions of the building with the hall would be 164 x 63, and without it 117 x 63. The architects submitting plans must furnish a statement of the cost, including excavations. For the plan adopted, if it be for a building with a public hall, $100 will be paid, and if without it, $50, in either case the plans to become the city's property."

I should be very much obliged if you would write an article on this subject.

Yours truly,

WINNIPEG ARCHITECT.



[Here is another competition which is even worse than those referred to last month. The committee is in doubt, and is unwilling to decide a point without more information. But instead of gaining the information in a legitimate way and paying for it, it proposes to obtain what it so much desires by trying to induce a number of men to send in drawings for two schemes, either or neither of which may be adopted. The inducement is not even the carrying out of the work whichever scheme may be adopted but the magnificent sum of $1 50 in two prizes. This committee must have a very poor opinion of the architects they come in contact with, or have no knowledge of the quantity of work which must be done to prepare the design for which they offer the great prizes of $100 and $50. The value of the buildings is placed at $25,000 and $13,000, which equals $38, 000, and if five designs are sent in $1,900 worth of work is done for $150. The man winning first place only receives a sum a little over one fourth of what he is entitled to, and even then he is relieved of his plans. The way to stop these competitions is for architects to refuse to enter them, and to do all in their power to prevent others entering them. Of course in the present condition of the profession, any man who can draw a little is an architect in the opinion of the ignorant, and consequently there will be designs sent in, by men called architects no matter how absurd the conditions may be. The public is to blame from the fact that it is unable to judge in architectural matters, and will persist in deciding matters artistic, without the aid of competent advice. We should very much like to have the names of any men who may send in designs in response to such conditions as above. We should imagine that they must be very anxious to work for nothing or are extremely thankful for small mercies—THE

EDITOR.]

To make size for wall paper, break some glue up small, put it into a pail and cover the glue with water, and allow it to soak	for ten or twelve hours ; then add more water and boil until dissolved. Strain it through a muslin cloth, and try the size on a piece of paper. If it glistens it is too thick ; then add water. If it soaks into the paper it is too thin: Be careful, especially in the first coat, to bear very lightly upon the brush, and have plenty of size to flow freely from it, otherwise you may damage the paper. Give two coats of this, and when dry varnish with pale varnish, which should be applied very briskly, and leave off a the flow.

