	<doctype type="text">24	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	February, 1889



<article title="The Toronto Plumbing By-law" author="">THE TORONTO PLUMBING BY-LAW.



THE Plumbing By-law has been a source of much unnecessary effort on the part of the committee having it in charge. It has been altered several times since it was first passed, and from all appearances it will be altered many more times before it will meet with the approval of all the parties interested. One would think that two or three competent persons having a knowledge of what is required would be able to put this by-law into a workable form in a few days. The committee has had it under a process of improvement several months. It will be improved in some points, but injured in others. Whether the good will balance the bad, it is hard to say at the present time. A by-law of this description should be framed by those who understand the technical questions involved, under instruction of the committee having the matter in charge. What can be expected when one half the men on the committee know absolutely nothing about sanitary matters? There is also too much consideration shown for interests which are not directly interested no matter what form the by-law may take. The bylaw should be framed for the protection of the citizens, and for no other purpose, and other interests must suffer if they stand in the way of the citizens' good.

We have heard complaints that the revised by-law has done away with the examination and licensing of journeymen plumbers. Well, if such is the case, it is a step in the right direction. The master plumbers should be held responsible for all work done under them, and they should not be afforded the loop-hole of stating that the work complained of was done by a licensed journeyman plumber. To our mind it is impossible to examine a journeyman plumber to discover the value of the man, except at very great trouble and expense. A man may pass a theoretical examination and not be able to do a decent job of work, or he may fail on an examination as to the theory and yet be a first-class workman, capable of doing the best of work under competent direction. We would like to see the men registered, so that it would be possible to trace any scamped work home to the man who did it, and then be able to punish him for his criminal carelessness or indifference. The Examining Board should be reduced in number. Three capable men are sufficient to examine all who may come before the Board. There is no reason why so many interests should he represented, and these representatives paid at the rate of $5 per meeting out of the funds of the city. If these organizations wish to have representatives on the Board, let them pay their expenses. One good man could do the work as well as a dozen, and three should be more than ample.

We wish to draw attention to some points in the proposed revised by-law which we consider objectionable. The clause which allows of the trap being done away with on the house drain is a little premature in this city. Our sewers are not perfect enough for such a scheme and when adopted, provision should be made in some way or other to prevent a few soil pipes doing all the work, to the possible injury of those living in the houses having these too-efficient ventilating soil pipes, or in those houses near them. The scheme is a good one under certain conditions, but they do not exist in this city at the present time, nor will they for some few years to come.

The clause about weeping drains we do not understand. It can be made to mean that no weeping drains are to be laid inside a house, which we do not suppose is the intention. That a weeping drain should not connect directly with the house drains, is a good provision but that the trap should be placed so that it is accessible for flushing, is unnecessary. If the weeping drains are properly put in there is no necessity for flushing the trap, and any arrangement which depends upon such attention is defective and should not be allowed.

"Air pipes may be of standard wrought iron with steam fittings. Sheet metal will not be allowed." Will some one explain what the above means? We confess we do not know.

Does "air pipes" mean the pipes ventilating the traps, or does it mean some other set of pipes ? If it was not for the statement that " sheet metal will not be allowed," we would suppose that ventilating traps were referred to but as we have never heard of sheet metal being used except in scamped work, we cannot see the necessity of a clause to that effect. We would not allow of wrought iron pipes being used, as we believe it to be much inferior to cast iron and lead for the ventilation pipes off traps.

The provision that all cocks, etc., should have the maker's name stamped on them, is a good one. The one to the effect that they should be tested is of no value, as it does not say who is to test them, and if tested, what benefit will accrue without the man making the test is an official of the city, and has authority to reject those fittings not tip to the standard, and stamp those which stand the test. In Manchester all fittings are tested by a city official, a small fee being charged to cover the expenses of the department.

The paragraph which calls upon the master plumbers to give certain information to the Water Works Department, is uncalled for. The Water Works Inspectors should be able to attend to such matters, and if not, they should be compelled to.

Paragraph XIX is so worded that no one can understand what it means. It will certainly allow of a great many different interpretations. We are not in favor of relieving a master plumber from making good any defective work which he may have done. The object of appointing an inspector is to prevent bad work being done, and not to relieve plumbers of responsibility for any inferior work which they may have done and which may escape the notice of the inspector. We should judge that the city could be held responsible for any defective work which might show itself after the expiration of the thirty days if the City Engineer gives a certificate of acceptance relieving the plumber of further responsibility.

The last clause in the by-law, "To provide for the appointment of Plumbing Inspectors, Plumbing Examiners and their duties," is incomprehensible to us. There is nothing in the bylaw providing for the examination and licensing of journeymen plumbers, and yet this clause provides for an examination before the Board of Examiners under certain conditions.

We hope that the committee, after so much hard work and delay, will bring forth a by-law which will not require changing for two or three years. We have had so many by-laws, that one is puzzled to know which one is in force, without taking the trouble to make special inquiries.











<article title="Contracts Open" author="">CONTRACTS OPEN.

SANDWICH, ONT.—The building of a dry dock here is spoken of.

DUART, ONT.—Plans are being prepared for a brick school house.

MONTREAL. - A factory is to be built here by the <firm>Howard Pulpware Co</firm>

KEEWATIN, ONT.—Another new church is to be erected here next spring.

PICTON N. S. —The establishment of a system of waterworks is being agitated.

HAMILTON, ONT—The <assoc>Orange Association of the Hamilton district </assoc>will build a hall.

DELORAINE., MAN—-A new' English church will he built as soon as spring opens.



ST. CATHARINES ONT. The <firm>Lincoln Pulp Mill Co</firm>. will erect a mill to cost $l0,000.



ARDTREA. ONT.—The Presbyterians will probably build a new church next summer.

BELMONT, ONT.— The Presbyterians are talking of building a new church here next summer.

VICTORIA B. C—A large number of substantial buildings are to be erected this season.

BOBCAYGEON ONT.—$3,000 will be raised to build an additional wing to the South school here.

ST. LAMBERT QUE. - The question of water supply is being discussed by the citizens of this place.

MOOSOMIN, N. W. T—The <firm>Watson Manufacturing Company </firm>are considering the building of a large warehouse.—A court-house, jail, police barracks, and other public buildings will be erected by the government.—A new $10 ,000 hotel is talked of.

