	<doctype type="text">20	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	February, 1889



does his opponent. The public seem to be better able to remember the faults in a piece of architecture than the good points, more especially when the faults have been paraded before them by an architect of a jealous disposition. Why should architects draw attention to the faults in work executed by their professional brethren, and neglect to point out the good that is in it? Would it not be much better to go to their professional confrere and point out his mistakes, that in his next work he may be able to avoid them?

It is to be hoped that this movement inaugurated by the <assoc>Architectural Guild of Toronto </assoc>will meet with the hearty cooperation of the members of the profession throughout the province.

There is every hope for the rapid advancement of architecture in this province. There is talent of the highest grade among our architects, and when the Department of Architecture has been established in connection with the Engineering School much valuable assistance will be rendered the profession in the education of the masses to a proper appreciation of good work. For the past three or four years it has been the impression that any work of prominence must be done by outsiders if it is to be executed in a creditable manner. That such is not the case has been proven more than once, and yet it will have to be proven again. That in the end talent and perseverance will win, there is no doubt, but nevertheless the fight is a hard and most discouraging one.

It is hoped that every architect who is a man, will do all in his power to assist in the formation of the proposed Society, and afterwards make it a living, energetic power for good.



There is a certain faction in this city who take special delight in slandering the resident architects. Statements are made and reiterated which are false, contemptible and cowardly. If they were made openly, they could be met, but being made in a confidential underhand manner, there is no way of contradicting such statements. There is one statement made by friends of a non-resident architect, that the Toronto men are unable to have their work pushed through to completion in a thorough and businesslike manner, and that their "ideal architect" always carries out his work with dispatch, and can always be depended upon to fulfill any arrangement he may have made. We should like those parties to explain how it comes that there is a bulletin-board of a Toronto architect on a building on Wellington Street, which is not being erected under the supervision, with the information that "these premises will be occupied early in January by Mr. " etc. It is now the middle of February, and the building is not enclosed, and when it will be ready for occupation the future only can determine.



<article title="Suggestions for builders" author="Maginnis, Owen B.">SUGGESTIONS FOR BUILDERS.

By Owen B. MAGINNIS.



Builders who are sometimes hurriedly obliged to make their own plans will work to much greater advantage by drawing them to a scale

of 3/4 -inch to the foot, which is two thirds larger, than the usual architectural scale of 1/4-inch to the foot, provided the building be of ordinary limited dimensions. Should it be large, however, a smaller scale will have to be resorted to, in order to bring the drawing within the area of the paper. Using the increased scale, simplifies measuring from drawings, as a two foot rule is all that is necessary in taking off each 1-32 inch representing 1/2 inches C 1-16 inch, 1 inch; each 1/4 inch, 4 inches, and 3/8 inch, 6 inches. For the same reason, it is always judicious in making details and working drawings, to lay them down to a scale either of 1 1/2 inches equal to 1 foot or 3 inches equal to 1 foot. These scales are very comprehensive to mechanics for 1 1/2 inches on the rule is equal to 1 foot, actually constructed, 3/4 inch equal to 6 inches, 3/8 inch equal to 3 inches, each 1/8 inch equals 1 inch, and . each 1-16 inch equals ½ an inch. Similarly with the 3 inch scale.  Details of cornices or other simple parts, can be easily shown half size, full size or in section and elevation, for men, on a wide piece of board, and the scale can be used should the board not be of available width.

Has any Canadian builder ever tried or adopted the rod system for laying out the frame of a house ? If not I would suggest the following. which is one of the best in existence, though not generally known Supposing the foundation to be laid and ready for the frame, measure the plan, and find the longest measurement whether it is one of the sills or a corner post, and make a rod about 4 inches wide of 7/8-inch pine stuff, and line it off in pencil, in margins from 1/2-inch to 3/4 -inch in width, 6 inches longer than the longest measurement. Now find from the drawing, the exact height of each sill, and lay out one on each margin, marking the halving at the corners. and the mortises for posts. Lay out for each sill all the wall studs, window and door openings, writing "window" where a window comes and "door'' for a door. When there are breaks in the plan and small sills, they can be laid out on the reverse side of the rod. This rod can be easily laid out with a ten foot rod and a rule in the shop beforehand from the plans while the foundation is being put in, so that the timbers can be sorted, marked and cut at once, without any delay. The superiority of this system over the old one of laying out each stick separately, is obvious, for everything is laid down on the rod, and errors are not so likely to occur. Another rod can be laid out for posts showing the tenons top and bottom, for plate and sill, mortises for girts, etc. and the reverse side laid out for girts and wall plates. Sill dimensions should be carefully figured on the rod, so that each timber or number of timbers could be picked out as called for, and be marked from the rod.

The efficiency of The above will commend itself to builders who are on the lookout for system, and consequently saving of time.

The Queen Anne roof of tin causes much trouble to those who have not got sufficient details, including a roof plan from the architect, owing to the owner having bought the plans outright and this is the ease all he obtains is the cellar and floor plans, one or two elevations and a section of the stories, I have known more than one builder to become hopelessly stuck on a roof of this kind, and only proceeded with the framing when he had attained a roof plan from the architect, which cost the owner $10. The best way to do in a difficulty like the above, is to follow his example, and go to the architect, that is if he is willing to furnish a plan, for some architects are very conservative, and will not supply any details unless they have the superintendence during construction. If he will not furnish it, or the owner is unwilling to pay the extra expense, it would be advisable to lay down a plan of the wall-plates to a large scale on a drawing board, and raising up each pitch to frame the roof in sections, proceeding carefully, so as not to spoil any of the timbers. A sectional drawing showing the pitches, headers for dormers and chimneys, and different levels of wall plates, will be of material assistance in framing and raising.



<article title=" Correspondence - Montreal" author="">Montreal

(Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder.)



THE number of new buildings erected in Montreal last year was 933, including 1533 tenements, 68 stores, 1 warehouse, 18 manufactories, 1 10

shops. and 2 churches, at an estimate cost of $3,477,895. Ten years ago The

number of new buildings erected was only 241.



<article title=" Correspondence - Winnipeg" author="">WINNIPEG. 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

 WE

 are rapidly approaching the building season of 1889, and although a great many people are talking of building, as yet there is not a single job actually decided upon. This is not as it should be. If plans were prepared and contracts let now, the contractors would get material hauled and joiners work ready much cheaper, so many men being out of work. In the spring, if there are not any contracts let, men go elsewhere to get work, and up go wages, besides rushing the architects.

Improvements are being made to <building>Grace Church</building>, to cost about $3,000. Mr. <person>C. O. Wickenden</person>, architect, has removed to Victoria, B. C.



<article title=" Correspondence - Quebec" author="">QUEBEC.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



A

NEW retail store is now under construction on the corner of Crown and St. Joseph streets, which has been leased to Messrs. <firm>Robitaille and Berneio, dry goods</firm>merchants. The site was formerly occupied by the late <person>T. Hudon</person>, the foundation of whose store will be used for the new building. The latter will cover the whole lot being lit from the two streets above named, having a frontage on St. Joseph St. of 52 feet, and a depth of 8o feet. The estimated Cost is in the neighborhood of $30,000. All the work is being done by the day under the superintendence of Mr., who also prepared the plans.

All the details respecting the widening of St. John St, (alluded to in November number) have been completed, and the long-talked-of improvement has been brought within appreciable distance. Out of about thirty proprietors, twenty-six have been settled with, and of this number several have taken the preliminary steps towards rebuilding. Nothing will however be done until May, as leases have to run out, and in some cases new lines have to be run between neighbors to square lots, etc. A disposition prevails to build with some regard to uniformity in height and material. If this prevails, the result will he more pleasing than is generally the case where every proprietor follows his own sweet will in the choice of material, and one builds high and another low, and so on. Harmonious action between our architects may work a change for the better in this special case.

Another long-talked-of project—the new hotel—is again on the tapis. A magnificent site has been secured from the Federal Government on very reasonable terms, viz., $1500 per annum. A meeting has been held, stock lists opened and canvassers set to work. Your correspondent has not heard the exact amount subscribed, but prospects are considered good. Hopes are expressed that an early commencement will be made. The site above alluded to is that formerly occupied by the old Parliament Buildings at the

