	<doctype type="text">18	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	February, 1889



during the present winter to organize an interchange of the architectural books among yourselves. Get up a scheme of reading, and make copious notes while you read. As an example for reading, take Egypt to begin with. As the mother of all nations and of all the arts and sciences, read all you can get hold of upon the customs and habits of the people ; then go to Assyria, Chaldea, Persia, and so on, and get up all the information you can upon the methods of construction and art used in the different countries, if you set steadily to work you will soon awaken an interest you never felt before. It was not until the more enlightened days of the Christian era that the real genuine science of construction began to be learnt, that is to say, the use of the least material consistent with security, so disposed that every part and fragment was of use and could not be done without. All the earlier work upon which I shall touch to-night was rude, and without any proportion between the actual work required to be done and the material for doing it. The ancient nations had no difficulty in securing labour ; every ruler was an absolute autocrat, and his subjects generally submitted with good grace. Prisoners of war were always plentiful, and were always used as labourers. They had to work hard, take kicks, blows and worse for payment, and live on what they could get. The indomitable persistency of the Egyptian monarchs has left us vast and magnificent monuments of their ruder art. Immense as they are, yet no trouble was spared and time seems not to have been taken into account; the stones fitted with such fine joints that they are hardly visible; huge stones made to slide in grooves, fitting so closely yet moving easily so that a pin can hardly be inserted in the space between. There is no better work on the pyramids than that of <person>Piazzi Smith</person>'s, entitled, "Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid," and which is in the Public Library. He minutely describes the particulars of every part, and the wonderful accuracy with which the work was done, giving all measurements taken by different surveyors and explorers from the earliest time.

There was an example recently in one of the daily papers, of the carelessness with which men will read, and then go and put an entirely different construction on the Words than is meant by the author. "A little knowledge is a dangerous thing" is a very true saying, but the only danger to this reader was that he made such a fool of himself, and attempting to teach others, was apt to lead them astray. From his letters it was easy to see what books he had read even without his mentioning them. In some places he would quote but twist the meaning round completely, and he knew nothing further than he read. The subject was, "Assyrian History." He read Mr. Smith's work edited by <person>Prof. Sayce</person>and, without reading any others for corroboration, be constituted himself  an authority and wrote to the papers vehemently denouncing any one who differed from him. Then he was silent a while; he was reading Rawlinson's "Five Ancient Monarchies." Presently he burst out again; he had just got to the end of first volume apparently and began to spring upon the public his marvellous knowledge.  You must read and study this subject outside office hours, or you will never get on.

I shall not be able to-night to do more than take a very cursory glance at the History. The subject is such a vast one, covers so many thousands of miles and so many thousand  years, that in one evening it will be impossible to go into it more in detail; that must be left to a future occasion. I can only give you an insight into the complexity of the subject. I will get on as far as possible and leave time for discussion presently, outlining the course you should pursue.

The wonderful excavations for the tombs of the earlier kings of Egypt give us examples of the earliest mural decorations. In the rock-cut temples with the architectural facades cut in the face of he rock, we have the beginning of architecture proper, and we trace its various progressive steps from tomb to monument and temple. An important matter to observe here is the variety of influences at work on the formation of any style of architecture —not only the materials to be found at hand and unity of purpose on the part of the people, but their manners and customs according to their warlike or peaceful dispositions, the origins of the different nations, the localities and surroundings of the forefathers of the race, the religions, traditions and superstitions of the tribe, and particularly the influences of climate."

After outlining the beginnings and leading characteristics of architecture in Egypt, Assyria, Chaldea, and Persia—the temples, tombs, palaces, modes of construction and decoration, with the successive steps of development—the lecturer in conclusion, said:

"I have not ventured this evening to touch upon the matter of detail, either artistic, constructional or decorative; it has taken me all our time for this evening to outline roughly the principal features of the architecture of the first 3000 years of its existence, and there is still another matter to look into of no less importance; I allude to chronology. An architect must be sure of his dates; he must clearly understand to what century such and such details belong, and this is a point which very soon distinguishes between the educated architect and the "fraud" practising as an architect. The very form of the mouldings of the more delicate styles of architecture are indicative of their dates, and it is excruciating to see how men will jumble up mouldings and details of different dates, without regard to fitness, in a hodgepodge of unmeaning rubbish, which they fondly believe is a triumph of their art. Let us consider the dates of four or five kingdoms I have taken you through to-night. It is only through recent research, that is to say, during the course of the last fifty or sixty years, that the indefatigable efforts of explorers have enabled us to arrive at anything clear and substantial. The wildest notions have been promulgated, and every year adds to our knowledge, and you are fortunate in living at a time and beginning your studies when the doubts and dissensions are being rapidly cleared away. So in after years you, at any rate, will have no excuse if you muddle your details. A building of different dates mixed up together like currants in a pudding is as incongruous and ridiculous as a person who would appear in the streets with say, a slashed mantel of silk and velvet of the 16th century and a chimney pot hat of the day on his head, a perfect guy of costume! but that is what a good many houses and churches are now-a-days.

It is no longer reasonable to speak of such in definite terms as 6000 and 7000 years B. C. in reference to architecture. We are unable to go back further than B.C. 3500 as the very earliest date. There we begin with the tomb excavations. A little later, 200 years B.C. 3300, we have the Pyramid Builders. <person>Ferguson</person>, according to Manetho, starts with the Pyramid Builders at 3906 B.C., but <person>Manetho</person> is now found to have gone back too far. The Temple Builders we put down as in the 19th century B.C., not earlier than 1819 BC, and from thence onward. The exodus of the Jews took place about 1312 B.C. Then in point of date come the Chaldeans, but of their very earliest history we have no architectural remains. Chaldean history opens at 2400 or 2500 B.C. in Lower Babylonia. They flourished for 1100 years, till B.C. 1300, when they were subdued by the Assyrians, who for six and a half centuries dominated the land, and lived, flourished and died. Then the Chaldeans that we have to do with come before us. They reasserted themselves as a nation and existed for the short period of little more than 100 years, to B.C. 530. The Kingdom of Persia existed between BC. 558 and B.C. 336. It was at the height of its greatness during the years between B.C. 506 and B.C. 479, hardly 30 years.

Our sketch has brought us down to within 350 years of the Christian era, and we are confronted by two roads, one going west, the other east. If we follow the easterly course, we must trace the Art in Asia, but the westerly or European route is the one which just now interests us most. Bearing in mind the extent of the Kingdom of Persia, it is easy to see how closely even China is connected by manners and customs, by polity and civilization, with Egypt, and easier still to see how in the progress of the Art westward, the glorious Gothic was developed. But we have come to a good break, and probably you have heard enough for one night, and it would he well to recapitulate by means of discussion. You see how vast a subject it is, but at any rate if I have succeeded in arousing a keener interest in this important branch of your professional knowledge, I shall have attained the object of my visit to you to-night.

