<doctype type="text">February, 1889	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	19



<article title="Woodstock Competition" author="">WOODSTOCK COMPETITION.

I

N our last issue we referred to the proposed competition for a new court-house for the county of Oxford to be erected in the town of Woodstock. We then spoke in strong terms of the conditions of the competition, and although they have been modified to the extent that the successful competitor is promised the carrying out of the work under certain conditions, we must still protest against the unfairness of the competition, and advise all architects who have any respect for their profession to refrain from submitting designs.

There is a large quantity of chance, even in a competition where every care has been taken to ensure that the best design shall win. In a competition where no care has been taken to guard against unfairness, it results in a lottery, with the chances in favor of the least deserving. Architects as a body should do all in their power to reduce the number of unnecessary competitions. There are times when a properly conducted competition results in good to the public and to the profession, but it is only in cases where the work is of a public and very important character. No man worthy of the name of architect should enter a competition where all the conditions are framed to protect but one party, and that party the one who will derive almost all the benefit.

We will state our objections to thc conditions in the order in which they are placed in the advertisement of Dec. 26th. We will not refer to the amount of the premiums, for although they are not large, they do not much affect the fairness or unfairness of the competition. But the next clause we would not allow to be placed in any set of conditions. For the paltry sum of $150 or $200, the County Council of Oxford desire to appropriate that which is worth to them very much more, or nothing whatever. The preparation of a set of preliminary drawings for a building to cost $68,000, is worth $680, and yet the Council proposes to appropriate two or it may be three sets for a sum, very much less. Architects are averse to having their plans appropriated, and this clause will prevent many entering the competition.

The next serious objection is, that there is no mention of any professional adviser. Those designs sent in are apparently to have their merits and demerits weighed by a special committee of the County Council who will decide as to the winner of the competition. What architect of any experience will submit a design to such incompetent judges? One might as well hope that a committee of architects would be able to judge correctly the good and bad points of a horse, or the respective qualities of different grains, as that such a committee will be able to choose the best three designs in their respective order of merit out of a number of others. An expert's decision is not infallible and may err greviously, but the possibilities are that he will give as nearly fair a decision as a fallible man is capable of doing, provided that the expert is both honorable and competent. That a committee entirely ignorant of all the points in the problem can give a just decision, is almost as probable as that the moon is made of green cheese.

All instructions should be printed and forwarded to applicants without any trouble or cost to them. The number and sizes of the rooms should be stated, with all possible information as to the uses to which they will be put.

There is no necessity of carefully worked out plans and specifications, as seems to be required by the advertisement. All that is necessary is that each competitor should show his method of giving the desired accommodation, with such elevations as are sufficient to explain the design, together with explanations of the plan, and a description of the material proposed to be used

In the last clause we have a most wonderful condition, viz. that no awards will be paid until the building has been tendered on, and that may not be until the 1st of July, 1890. Just think of it! a man to surrender his plan for a paltry sum, and even then the payment of that small sum to be conditional on whether the accepted design can be built within the appropriated amount. We suppose that in case no awards should be paid the plans would be handed back to their owners. It would, however, be impossible for the Council of the County of Oxford to surrender the

information which it acquired through these plans, and then it would be appropriating that for which it never gave value.

In the "Supplemental Circular" it is stated, that " The architect who is the ultimately successful competitor shall * *

be awarded the superintendency of the works at a price

* * * not to exceed 4 per cent. of the contract price." Any architect who faithfully fulfils all the work devolving on him in the erection of a building the above character and costliness, is well worthy of the full commission of 5 How much more is he entitled to it when he has had to go through all the worry and expense of a competition!

That men can be found who are prepared to enter a competition such as the above, is surprising. That many will enter there is no doubt, nor is there any question that they will not be those who are capable of doing the best of work. When competitions were first introduced, it was with the object of getting the best design obtainable from among those most competent ; now it would appear to be with the object of getting a design of some sort or other from among those who are most incompetent.

We strongly advise all architects to refuse to submit designs under the terms of this competition, and would be pleased to receive the names of those whom the conditions would debar from entering the competition.



<article title="Queries and Answers" author="">QUERIES AND ANSWERS.

SIZE OF WOOD BEAMS.



(No. 1).—Will some one state a simple formula for finding the strength of wood beams ?—ENQUIRER.



STOPPING CRACKS IN IRON TANKS.



(No. 2).—I have a rivetted iron tank which is either cracked along the rivets or wants packing. Is there any way to stop the leaks otherwise than by getting a new tank ? "Lux."



(No. 3).—How can I take the glass out of old sashes without breaking it or cutting the wood ? "J. F. C."



<article title="Proposed Canadian Architectural Association" author="">PROPOSED CANADIAN ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION.

The committee which was appointed by the <assoc>Architectural Guild of Toronto</assoc>to make arrangements for the formation of an <assoc>Architectural Society for the Province of Ontario</assoc>, has prepared a draft of a constitution for the proposed Society. It will also report that copies of this constitution be sent to all architects of good standing in this province, that they may be able to make any suggestions towards its improvement. A general meeting of all practising architects in the province will be called at an early date for the formation of a Society, the adoption of a constitution and the election of officers.

It is hoped that an active interest will be taken in this movement by all architects who desire the good of their profession. Local meetings should be called, and every side of the question discussed, that intelligent action may be taken for the advancement of architecture in the country.

United action on the part of architects will not only benefit themselves and do much for architecture in this province, but also cause the work of an architect to be better understood, and consequently better appreciated by the masses.

The Architectural Guild of Toronto has only been in active existence eighteen months, yet it has achieved much. There have been material gains of a positive character, but the greatest benefit has been through bringing the members together in a sociable manner. They have become acquainted one with the other, and are thus better able to make allowances for each other's weaknesses. They are commencing to understand that in pulling others to pieces there is such a thing as assisting in the act of pulling oneself to pieces at the same time. No architect can do work so perfect that it is not open to criticism, though some men can do work so bad that it is not worth criticizing. When one architect examines another man's work with the sole object of discovering what is bad, refusing to see the good, and then proceeds immediately to inform the general public of the discoveries he has made, he does himself as much harm as he

