

<doctype type="text;plate">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

<article title="Our Illustrations" author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION FOR A

$2,500 TOWN HOUSE- DESIGN BY "<firm>SOLARIA</firm>."



THIS plan has been prepared for a northeast corner instead of a northwest one, and is consequently not to be judged from the same standpoint as the other designs. For a northeast corner the house has been properly designed. The dining room is very well planned, although it would not have the benefit of the early morning sun; the bay window, however, would catch the rays of the sun as soon as the sun arrived on a direct line with the north side of the house. The recess for the sideboard is too short, and if one were built for the position, it would be out of scale. We should have planned the bay window in the parlor on the north side, and not given it a western exposure, which in summer is very warm, and in winter equally cold. The vestibule is very bad, being too long and too narrow, and the alcove has not been made of much benefit either in a utilitarian or ornamental way. The vestibule should have been six or twelve inches wider and two feet shorter ; the alcove would also have been improved by this change. The hall is very roomy and convenient, but has been completely spoiled in appearance by there turn flight of the main stair. The method of making one of the main stairs for a portion of the servant stair is had. The servants in passing across the landing would have a view of the main hall. The kitchen, serving pantry, etc., are well arranged, and the large porch would be very useful for many purposes.

The first floor plan is bad, in fact it could hardly be worse. There are only two good bed rooms, each with a closet. What we said of the bay window in the parlor applies to the one in the front bed room. It was also possible to have gained access to this room without ruining the other front room, by slightly changing the position of, and making the closets wider and shorter, so as to have given a lobby from which the front room could have been reached. The bath-room could not have been worse arranged. If a door had been placed where a curtain is marked, and an arch put in where the present door is shown, a wardrobe or chest could have been gained. But even if the best that could be done with this floor had been done, it would still have been far from what a bedroom floor should he. The elevations are very good —that is, if they were put in the hands of an experienced man and improved in the detail, the result would be good. The plan and elevation shows an hand inexperienced hand, and one whom we should judge had never been in an architect's office. The drawing is very bad ; it cannot be called drawing, it has been so carelessly done. However, we have no doubt that the design was not prepared by one who has had a fair opportunity of learning drawing, and it is very possible that the author deserves praise for his perseverance rather than censure for his shortcomings.

ACCEPTED AMENDED DESIGN FOR <building>TORONTO BOARD OF TRADE BUILDING</building>—<firm>JAMES & JAMES, ARCHITECTS, NEW YORK.</firm>



SUGGESTED SKETCH FOR MANTEL—<person>J. A. RADFORD</person>, ARCHITECT.







A lump of soda laid upon the drain-pipe down which waste water passes will prevent the clogging of the pipe with grease especially if the pipe is flooded every week with boiling water

Mr. <person>E. W. Keating</person>, City Engineer of Halifax, N. S., has patented a device for cleaning water pipes. The cost of cleaning the twenty-four-inch and fifteen-inch mains of that city last year is said to have been only $27.68.

