



<doctype type="text">RESPONSIBILITIES OF STUDENTS.

<article title="Responsibilities of Students" author="Gambier-Bousfield, R. W.">RESPONSIBILITIES OF STUDENTS

ABSTRACT OF LECTURE DELIVERED BY R. W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.



ASSOC. R. I. B. A., TO THE <assoc>STUDENTS AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S



ASSOCIATION OF TORONTO</assoc>.



"FOOLS build houses for wise men to live in" is an old saying, and as very many people translate it, it is a bad thing for the livelihoods of you and me. It certainly is a fact that fools build houses—fools do a great many sensible things—but it does not at all follow that everyone is a fool who builds a house, whether be is the proprietor or the architect. But, let me tell you, proprietors and architects too, are all liable to the opprobrious epithet if they do not take care, and it is to be feared there are more fools than wise in this world—certainly there are enough of them without adding to them from the ranks of this profession.

You have had, as I understand, a good many papers and discussions on practical subjects, and you have all had more or less insight into the practical part of the profession. But the practical is only one side—the scientific part ; there is also the other side—the artistic, of no less importance for us as architects, if we would escape classification with the fools. And it is for you students and draughtsmen to look very carefully into this matter. If you ever mean to be anything or do anything in the profession you have chosen to follow for your livelihood, you must study both sides—the art as well as the science of architecture. Architecture is not complete as an art only, neither is a knowledge of the practical part alone sufficient to warrant a man calling himself an architect. How can a man call himself an architect if he is only a builder? or how can he practice in the profession if he is only an artist? But there are many men who try to do so, and these most certainly are the fools of the proverb.

A builder, whose work is entirely practical, has no time to go into the study— -his work is to execute in stone, brick or wood, the forms given him by the architect. It is not for him, even if he cared about it, to say this or that form is incorrect, and to request the architect to alter his drawing accordingly ; but he is to have the work done in stone, and therefore to memorialize, every one who shall look at the stone for years to come, that this architect who ordered him to do it, either did or did not know what he was about. If he did know then the form is correct, and if he did not, it is incorrect, and he has handed down to posterity a sign and mark of his inability. If it rested with a stone here or a stone there, it would not matter so much, but a whole building often and often exhibits to those who are educated at all, the fact that the man who designed it was not educated, and the public generally are becoming more educated every day.

So with an artist. He may design something to be executed in stone that can not be done in any other material than iron, or he may design brickwork that could not be carried out, and wood must be substituted. The artist, to be an architect, must know the capabilities of the materials he would employ. A striking example is to be seen in the work of stained glass artists all over the world. They are artists, and have studied their art, but they have not studied architecture, and one usually sees saints and angels backed up by impossible buildings, or standing under canopies of most impracticable design.

Besides being an artist and a builder, an architect must be a good business man, of regular and orderly habits. The work of his business is of such a varied character, that if he has any business at all it behooves him to have his wits about him, and have everything in order to his hands. His day's work and appointments must be carefully mapped out, that he does not have to go over the ground twice and thereby waste precious time.

An architect must be a man of probity and honor. Sad to say we have many men in the profession who are not so. How often we have instances of underhand dealing, conniving with one or other party to the disadvantage of the other. An architect fills a position with regard to proprietors and contractors such as is occupied by no other professional man. He is the sole medium between the proprietor and the contractor. He has the interests of both in his keeping, he has to act fairly and squarely on behalf of both. If the architect sides with either the one or the other to the prejudice of the other, he is failing in

his duty. Students and draughtsmen have not of course in their positions these responsibilities to the same extent as architects, but in so far as they are assistants to their employers, it is well for them to bear these things in mind, and when dealing with clients or builders to act accordingly. But your responsibilities do not rest here. You have been endowed with a talent by your Maker to be cultivated and improved by you, and you will one day have to answer to Him, not only for the use to which you have put it, but to the extent to which you have improved it. There is nothing in all creation, from the highest to the lowest forms of all three kingdoms, in which there is not some beauty. How is it then that the works of so many men, brought up in a world in which there is so much that is beautiful, harmonize so badly, or rather do not harmonize at all, with the beautiful things of Nature? To confine ourselves to works included in our profession, how is it that there are so few good buildings, beautiful buildings, on our streets ? The beauty of a building does not depend entirely on the color of its materials, and certainly it does not depend upon the amount of money expended upon it. Then, when there are buildings of all sorts going up around us, how is it that so few are beautiful? Take a walk here in town along one of our streets devoted to private residences, and you will see on either side of you houses of various types— some that attract attention on account of this or that particular detail strikingly noticeable, and others, that you cannot say at the moment why you do not like them, but you are sure you do not, and begin to ask yourself the reason why. Then you come to a house perhaps not a brick larger than the majority of the houses you have noticed, and perhaps costing less money rather than more, and it strikes you at once as being beautiful. You cannot point to any particular detail and say, it is that that makes it so, and you cannot find a feature that seems out of place that attracts particular attention to itself it is the general appearance of the whole building that you like ; each part is well proportioned ; there is a harmony and a sense of repose pervading the whole design which you cannot fail to admire, if you have a spark of the artist about you. There are buildings in England and elsewhere, recently erected, every bit as beautiful in their way, as the cathedrals of centuries ago, in their way— buildings that one can stand and look at as one would at a picture. These are buildings that have been built by architects— properly so-called —artists as well as builders—men who in designing, know what they are about ; why they put this detail here and that feature there, who proportion one part to another with a natural talent, trained to perfection, so that to design a thing in beauty is as much a pastime as a labor to them. But this perfection in design has not been attained without great labor and study there is no royal road to that end, Be the genius of a higher or lower order, the result will in one way be identical. Some may have a greater genius and their works may be wonders of the world, others with less genius may still produce works of equal beauty, though perhaps, of lesser dimensions and for less important purposes. It is to this that all bona fide students desire to attain. These exquisite buildings inflame their desire to know how to do likewise. It is only because the cathedral builders of the middle ages were so intimately acquainted with the science of construction that they were able to dispose their materials to produce such glorious effects, and it is only because the architect of the day has mastered both the art and the science, that he is an architect ; therefore, if you aspire to be architects you must have architecture at your fingers' ends. We have only to use our eyes to ascertain what architecture is, but it requires a good use of the brain as well to know how it is produced.

On this continent students have the very great misfortune of not having old buildings to examine, and they have to get the greater part of their information second hand, by means of books and drawings. Some few have the advantage of being in the offices of men who have themselves studied the old buildings, and from them and their work they can learn a great deal more. But to keep pace with students in the old world, you must work much harder, and never lose a single opportunity. We are fortunate in having a good public library, and it would be well for you

