<doctype type="text">February, 1889	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	23



of grey satin on which wild roses are painted. The mantel is built up quite high with plain cherry shelves, which hold some pretty bits of china, etc., that did not have to be bought. There are a few good pictures—not included in the $1,000—two or three pretty little tables, a low book-case of very humble foundation entirely covered with the red velour's, each shelf being edged with fringe put on with brass-headed nails, an artistic-looking lamp, etc.

The handsome portiere at the double doors leading into the hall is of double-faced red velour's plainly made, and between the parlor and library there is only a wide screen reaching about half-way up, but some pretty Japanese lattice-work in cherry crosses the top of the opening and comes down at the sides. THE actual money cost of this room was about $240, but much of the work was done by the lady of the house.

A library sounds rather formidable with limited means, but in this case, it is one of the cosiest gathering places in the house. There is certainly nothing stiff about it, and the dull red of the parlor is even more lavishly used here than there. The walls, carpet and wood-work are the same, as this gives a look of greater space, and looks better when both rooms are thrown open, but the chair and lounge coverings are of dull-red leather, and the oblong writing-table has a top of the same material. Brass nails are liberally used, as the room is a middle one and dark, and the one shelf that runs around the chimney has brass vases and candlesticks holding red candles.

The fire-place has brass andirons and fender, and just opposite, there is a long low book-case of six cherry shelves, with a scarf-cover for the top of olive-green felt trimmed with bands of the red velour's and a little embroidery in dull pinks and reds. The doorway into the dining-room has a portiere of the same olive felt, with a deep frieze, a quarter of a yard below the top, of bands laid exactly on the basis in dull-red, pink and blue. The cost of this room is about $150.

Beyond is a rather small dining-room, which is still less costly, as there is not much space to cover. The walls are of a dull-red, and the floor covering is a large oblong—the shape of the room—of felt, in the same color but a deeper tint. The six chairs in cherry, with seats of olive leather, were bought at auction for $2 each, and the two arm chairs for $5, making a total of $22. The buffet was another bargain at $15 ; the carpet did not cost over $10; the curtains, in soft, olive-green serge did not cost over $4 a window, poles and all. The dining-table was bought with the chairs for $8, and it has a very pretty cover matching the frieze of the portiere.

Besides these necessary articles, there are some few odds and ends, making the expense in all about $65.

The pretty stair-carpet is continued all the way up the third story stairs, and the second floor has the usual arrangement of two large rooms, one small one and a bath-room. The front rooms allow a small dressing-room and a good-sized bedroom opening into each other, and here the wood-work is in natural cherry—light brown with a suggestion of pink in it—and the walls have a pale-pink paper. The bedstead is made of pine entirely covered with a beautiful cretonne having pink roses on a grey ground, and this cretonne is used for the other furniture covering also, the only article on which it does not appear being the low wide bureau that matches the wood-work. A square of very pretty Brussels carpeting, which also shows roses on a grey ground, was picked up as a remnant at the low price of $15, and the curtains are of cheese-cloth, very full and soft, with some of the roses and leaves from the cretonne straying over them at irregular intervals. These sprays were applied with flour-paste and ironed while damp, looking as though they were painted on the cheese-cloth.

It is a lovely room, and its entire cost, with all necessary appurtenances, was in the neighborhood of $75.

The back room is full of sunshine, and has the same undressed cherry wood-work. Blue seems the natural coloring, and blue it is, so far as wall-paper, carpet, and various trimmings are concerned. The furniture consists of an iron bed-stead painted white, and having a coverlet and bolster of blue sateen, a dressing-table covered with cheap white lace over blue, a chest of

drawers painted white to match the bedstead, and decorated with brass handles, a two-shelved table covered with blue sateen and edged with lace, like the coverlet, a box-lounge, with pillow, covered with blue and a lace overdress like that on the dressing table, a low arm-chair attired in the same way, a rocker in white-painted willow with blue cushions, a foot-rest to match, and window curtains of some thin white woolen stuff with blue cross stripes. A few old wood cuts, in plain frames of natural cherry, decorate the walls, and the carpet is an ingrain in small white daisies on a blue ground.

This pretty room cost about $90.

The little dressing-room, with a plain, but convenient dressing- table, floor-covering and other necessaries, added about $36 more to the bill of expenses.

On the third-floor, the front rooms were in Turkey-red with ash wood-work, and the back one, in similar wood-work, had furniture covering of blue and white cretonne. On the matted floor of the front room which had a glow of red in it, there was a large centre rug of silk and woollen strips woven like a rug carpet. The effect was particularly good with the Turkey-red, and the cheese-cloth curtains were lined with this bright-hued material. The wall-paper in both rooms was a pale olive, but in the back room, it was a yellow-cream with dashes of gold in it.



The entire cost of this floor was $150—leaving $150 for up-stairs hall and stair-carpet, the bath-room, kitchen, and various odds and ends. Good management and ingenious handiwork were brought into play to furnish a fair-sized city house on so small a sum with some degree of taste, and small articles were "picked up" here and there at very low prices. The result was a very pleasing one, and may be repeated with variations.



<article title="A Specimen of Sanitary Plumbing" author="">A SPECIMEN OF SANITARY PLUMBING.



A

 CASE came up for decision in one of the Toronto Courts the other day, which served to show the unscrupulous character of some individuals doing business in this city as plumbers, and the necessity for strict regulation of plumbers and careful official inspection of their work. A engaged B to do a job of plumbing in his house. One of the things B agreed to do was to put in a 4 inch iron soil pipe, extending up through the roof. Instead of this, however, he put in a 4 inch lead pipe to connect with the closet, and on top of this placed a three inch lead vent pipe extending through the roof. The "joint" at the meeting of the 4 inch pipe with the three inch pipe, was described by a witness as something wonderful to behold. So "tight" was it, that a person's finger might easily have been inserted between the pipes. The pipes had been crimped in the way a tin-smith treats slave pipes that will not join, but nothing in the shape of a wiped joint had been attempted. A, upon discovering the condition of affairs, called upon B to properly fulfil his contract. This B refused to do, whereupon A hired another plumber to do the work, and sued B for the cost of the same. In court, B stated under oath that his work had been done in accordance with the usual practice of the best plumbers. The judge appears to have taken this statement cum grano salis, and decided in favor of the plaintiff.





Experiments are being conducted by Mr. <person>F. Stuart Miller</person>, C. E., with a view to the purification and utilization of the sewage of the City of Toronto. It will be the wish of every citizen who understands the condition of affairs, that Mr. Miller may succeed in his object.



The <firm>Grand Trunk railway</firm>is said to be preparing to make a practical experiment with an electric car-heating apparatus invented by Mr. <person>Roe Fuller</person>, an employee in the Grand Trunk shops at Portland, Me. It consists of a dynamo placed in the baggage-car, power being taken from the moving axles. A metal bar is placed in a tank of water in each car. Pipes from the tank extend all around the car. The metal bar is to be heated by an electric current, thus heating the water in the tank.

