<doctype type="text">February, 1889	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER	21



head of Mountain Hill. It commands a splendid view of the Harbor, and Lewis Heights, with the Island of Orleans and Cote Beaupre in the distance with a glimpse of the famous Montmorenci Falls and is in close proximity to the Post Office, Cardinal's Palace, &c.





<article title="Canadian Society of civil Engineers" author="">CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

<assoc>Canadian Society of civil Engineers</assoc>

THE second annual meeting held in Montreal on the 17th nit., was well  attended. The proceedings were enlivened by the presence of the Governor General, who, with <person>Sir W. Dawson</person>, are the first hon. members of the Society. The increase in membership, deducting resignations, is 84, and the list now stands at

Hon. Members	2

	Members	258

	Associate Members	87

	Associates	47

	Students	145

	540



The report says, '' It is encouraging to find that eminent engineers both in England and the United States are enrolling themselves as members of our Society. It is a mark of its growing importance and surely a presage of its future success.'

There were six ordinary meetings for the reading of papers, three special ones for students. One paper by a student has been deemed of sufficient merit to be printed in the transactions.

The library makes satisfactory progress. A number of valuable contributions in books and photographs have been made by members of the Society. Arrangements will shortly he completed whereby members will be able to borrow books from the library.

The sum of $3,281 has been promised for the building fund, Of this $1,809 have been paid in. The students have responded liberally to the fund.

The income for the year ending 31st December, 1888, amounted to $2,-777.64, the general expenditure $1,789.64, leaving a balance of $988, which, together with the balance of $960,92 brought forward from 1887, gives a total balance to the credit of the Society of $1,948.92.





<article title=" Correspondence - Canadian Builders and Contractors Association" author="">CANADIAN BUILDERS' AND CONTRACTORS' ASSOCIATION.

 Hamilton Ont. Feb. 10, 1889.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

Dear Sir,—I noticed in the January number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a reference made to the formation of a Central or Provincial Association of Builders. the idea is I think a good one, and I wonder that such an Association has not been established long since.

Judging from the number of local Builders' Associations that have been formed in this Province, it should seem to lie a recognized fact amongst the contractors that organization has to them become an essential to success. If this be so, it would be well that such Associations should be regulated and governed by certain general laws and principles which should be well considered and adopted by representative building contractors convened



from all parts of the Province. I think this is necessary to insure uniformity

of action in case of any threatened trouble among operatives.

With a Central Association formed, and a working Executive appointed to receive and transmit reports from and to local Associations, the contractors generally would be placed in a better position in estimating for work. I believe further, that the knowledge that the building contractors were united throughout the Province, would have a deterring effect upon the advancement of so many unjust demands by the various labor organizations.

Again, there are a number of questions of great importance to the building trade which ought to be considered very carefully by a Provincial Association, such as the Lien Law, the Employer's Liability Compensation Act, and the establishing of Trade Schools in different parts of the Province. These are matters which affect the building trade more than any other, and which should be discussed, and the consensus of opinion thereon submitted to our legislators for their guidance in the framing of laws bearing upon these matters.

Other reasons could be urged for the formation of a Provincial or Centra, Association of Building Contractors, but as I have already trespassed too much on your valuable space, I must leave them to abler pens than mine to set forth. Hoping that this subject will receive the attention from your contributors which its importance demands,

I remain,

AN INTERESTED OBSERVER.





A bill has been introduced in the Dominion Parliament, which provides that any company or individual owning a building in which there is a hoist or elevator, must provide on each floor an automatic guard or gate to the hoist. Penalties are to be imposed in the event of the law not being carried out.

The <firm>Nova Scotia Glass Works</firm>, New Glasgow, N. S., have sold in the seven years over $600,000 worth of goods and paid in wages, $260,000. about four-fifths of the goods have been sold in the Dominion. The company contemplate enlarging their business and expect within the next year to double their output.

<article title="Mistakes in Brickmaking" author="">MISTAKES IN BRICKMAKING.

H. <person>H. M.CLURE</person>, before the <assoc>National Associations of Brickmakers</assoc>, at the meeting held at Memphis, Tenn., Nov. 16, 1888, said: I shall take this opportunity of stating that I am not a practical brickmaker, but having been for the past two years serving the <firm>Rome Brick Company </firm>in the capacity of secretary and treasurer, I base my remarks on observation rather than practical experience.

During this time 1 have noted some of the mistakes we have made, and it is a reasonable hypothesis to presume that our mistakes would be yours were the positions reversed.

In a shorter space than one year after we began operations, our 40-horse power engine was replaced by a Harris Corliss of 125-horse power; our 12 power hoist was set aside, and one of twenty-five put in its stead our two-inch water main, 500 yards in length, has been taken up, and one four inches in diameter, or four times tire capacity of the old, now gives us sample supply of water. This railed for additional pumps much larger than at first used, and had we known at thc beginning what we learned later, this additional expense could have easily beers avoided.

The first few months of our brickmaking we kept our team constantly on the road to and from the machine shops and foundries, hauling new and repaired machinery to us, and old iron to the more fortunate foundry-man.

Experience is the best teacher, and it applies with more potency to the manufacture of brick than any other business enterprise. After our first reverses we learned to prepare our clay properly, and more, that we could not profitably make dry clay brick in a semi-dry clay machine.

The mistake of putting clay into a machine without proper moistening and thorough preparation is a blunder

Let me suggest just here to prepare your clay in a common sense way before it goes into the machine, and I will (by way of parenthesis) also suggest the less you '' throw in for good measure," in the shape of rocks, iron scraps, bolts, spikes, and hammers, the shorter will be that awful '' bill of particulars" from the machine shop and foundry.

Another mistake I might mention in this connection is negligence or carelessness in looking after the machinery.

Don't allow the machine to run with bolts loose, shafting out of line and boxes worn to the quick. In an incredibly short time you will have the leaning Tower of Pisa in miniature, and your machine will afford the material for the simile.

When any part of your machinery breaks frequently, have die weak places made stronger. By a close observance of this rule we may overcome one source of annoyance and expense.

The old maxim, '' what is worth doing at all is worth doing well," holds perhaps with stronger emphasis in brickmaking than anything else,

When a brick manufacturer purchases an engine or machine he would do well to select a competent machinist to put them in position. Incompetency in this all-important and essential feature too frequently proves the '' Iliad of our woes."



The same rule applies to a dryer or kiln. If you build a dryer, of whatever kind, know that it is constructed on the most approved plan and properly managed after it is put in operation. The same is true of kilns. Determine which is the best for your purpose, then have it constructed by men familiar with every detail and point of the work, and when they are built have them operated by men whom you know are competent and trustworthy, so you can derive all the  benefits from their use.

With the very best machines, dryers and kilns, success is impossible without intelligent management.

It is not enough that everything is put up properly at the start ; they must he kept by constant care and attention in good order, for no engine, machine, dryer or kiln, however perfect and effective it may be in its construction and working will continue to perform its functions unless properly cared for.

This means not only repairing breaks, but using every precaution to

protect them from injury, Do not make the mistake of leaving your engine exposed to rain or dust. Don't use cheap oil on the bearings; don't have a careless man in charge of the machines.

We sometimes make mistakes in counting brick. Our patrons insist that it takes 1.000 brick to make 1.000, and that Salmon brick are not hard, It is best to humor their whims, however unreasonable they may appear to us. For, perhaps, the most of us depend upon our patrons for the " sinews of war" in the ever-increasing pay-rolls and fuel bills. I have mentioned only a few of the mistakes in brickmaking, but I trust these random remarks may answer as a text from which some of our practical friends may proceed to enlighten us on their personal mistakes in this line. Perhaps we learn more from others' mistakes than from their successes in this life.



We are pleased to notice that Messrs <firm>J. H. Farr & Co </firm>, of this city, who commenced about a year ago the manufacture of roofing pitch and asphalt-paving pitch, have succeeded in producing a native article which has shown itself to be superior to that hitherto imported from other countries,

