	<doctype type="text;plate">22	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER	February, 1889



<article title="How to Decorate and Furnish a Home" author="">HOW TO DECORATE AND FURNISH A HOME.



A

 THOUSAND dollars seems a great deal of money to many people, says a writer in the Builder and Decorator, yet it is a very moderate amount for the furnishing of a city house, and much good management is required to make it cover all that is needed "up-stairs and down-stairs and in my lady's chamber." The money vanishes most unaccountably, and strict adherence

to a carefully arranged list of must-haves and may-haves is the only way to avoid coming to grief.

Others again go to the opposite extreme, and appear to be hopeless of achieving anything pretty or tasteful on a limited sum — declaring that they cannot afford anything but the strictly practical. Pretty belongings, however, may be had even when a thousand dollars is to be stretched over a three storey house, and taking our nine or ten rooms as they come, we shall see how it can be done.

The hall, unfortunately, is not square—it never is in these moderate city houses

—but such as it is, we may make the best of it. The wood-work and a foot of the floor on either side are stained in cherry, the wall-paper is a peculiar shade of dull-blue with a

glint of silver, and has a rich and expensive look, but it did not cost over sixty cents a roll. The stair-carpet, which is continued through the hall, is a Moquette of dull, soft blues darker than the paper, and at the foot of the stairs, there is a white goatskin rug.

The hat-stand takes up as little room as possible—not more in fact than a picture, save for the projecting pins or hooks. These are of brass, and the square mirror, which is a particularly good one, is framed in cherry. An umbrella-stand of hammered brass, stands behind the door, and on either side of the parlor portiere, there is a plain cherry bracket of graceful shape that holds a pot of trailing vines, A small open cabinet,

also of cherry, faces the mirror and holds a few pieces of richly tinted, but inexpensive pottery.

The old-red of the parlor portiere adds a fresh element of beauty to the coloring, and the hall as a whole is a great improvement upon that usually found in houses of this character.

A very pretty brass lantern with panels of tinted glass lends its full share of decoration, and diffuses a soft and charming light at night, and, lantern included, with the stair-carpet as far as the second story, seventy dollars pays for this really handsome hall.

The parlor is very attractive in soft grey and old-red, carpet and wall-paper of the former hue with a pink tinge in it. Here again, floors and wood-work are of cherry, and the carpet, another soft Moquette of an exquisite shade, has daisy shaped flowers in old-reds and pinks. The curtains, of a thick handsome quality of Madras, show the same colors almost concealing the grey ground, and they are suspended from fluted brass poles.

The furniture is unique in style, and has proved a triumph of ingenuity over moderate resources. A carpenter made a straight open frame in slender cross - pieces of pine nicely smoothed, for a sofa, and the clever mistress of the house covered each piece first with canton-flannel and then with old-red velour's.

This sofa was just the shape of a cane settee, and when finished, the little open effect was very pretty.

A small mattress, on which the support across the top of the back

and arms was edged with velour's was neatly tufted, formed the seat, and the handsome fringe. It was so successful that an arm chair to match was speedily manufactured with equal satisfaction.

A smaller sofa is made of a packing-box, with the lid set up against the wall. This is divan shape, and it is covered with the same red velour's and finished around the seat with fringe. It looks well and is decidedly comfortable.

The remainder of the furniture is varied in style and coloring. A very pretty reception chair of rattan has been silvered and furnished with cushions of old-pink plush tied with pink and grey ribbons, while two silvered tete-a-tete chairs have cushions

