26

March, 1889

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



  THERE appears to be little or no supervision of plumbing



in the city of London, Ont., notwithstanding the fact that the Free Press of that city is one of the few daily journals in the Dominion which devotes considerable attention to subjects affecting the preservation of the public health. The sanitary condition of some of the houses, is thus depicted by a gentleman who, after losing one of his children by a severe attack of diphtheria, set to work to investigate for himself the causes which had induced the disease: "I had the floor of my cellar up, and I found the box drain, immediately under the floor of the cellar, with no trap, nor yet covered with earth, and there was a half-inch space around the waste pipe from the sink. On holding my hand over it I could feel a draft like in a chimney coming up from the sewer into my house; so the cause of sickness is easily explained, although hid by a cellar floor. On closer inspection of the lead trap under the sink, I find it is only about the thickness of writing paper—so that it soon wears or is rotted out. When the houses were being built, the builder was spoken to about the drain not being put lower, but he (the builder) said he did not care, he was going to sell. Although there never has been any sickness in the house before since it was built (about nine years), still the germs of disease were growing. I think there should be a law passed, that no box drains should be carried into a house, for tiles are cheap enough now, and, above all, it should be compulsory for one, if not two, traps to be put in, in its construction. There are four more houses on the same street, the drains built the same as mine." Such a revelation should suffice to bring about the passing of an ordinance stipulating the manner in which plumbing work shall be done, and the character of the material to be used, as well as the appointment of one or more inspectors, to see that the regulations are complied with. The law should provide no only that "no box drains should be carried into a house," but that tile even shall not be used inside a house. Tile is suitable enough for private drains extending from the outer walls to the street sewer. Inside the walls, nothing but iron pipe should be allowed to be used.

W



We print elsewhere, draft constitution of the proposed

 <assoc>Architectural Association for the Province of Ontario</assoc>. During the last month, delegates from the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Guild </assoc>have interviewed architects of cities and towns east and west of Toronto, on the subject of the formation of a Provincial Association. The result is most satisfactory. The need of such an organization appears to be universally recognized, and the delegates have received assurances on every hand of the willingness of architects to assist in carrying out the object. In view of the encouragement received, a meeting of architects has been called for Thursday, the 21st inst., in the Rossin House, Toronto, for the purpose of organizing under the name of "The Ontario Association of Architects." Every bona fide architect in Ontario is given a cordial invitation to be present at this meeting, and assist as far as possible in establishing on a broad, firm and satisfactory basis the proposed Association. By "bona fide architect," is meant men who have received the training and practice necessary to qualify them to perform satisfactorily the duties of an architect. This definition should not be understood to include builders, who may now and again draw the plan for a building. It is of the utmost importance to the success of the undertaking, that the meeting on the 21st should be representative of the whole Province. We therefore strongly urge architects in every locality, to make a little self-sacrifice if necessary, in order to attend. The Toronto Architectural Guild will leave nothing undone to render the visit of the architects not only profitable, but pleasant as well. The porgramme of the meeting will include a dinner at the Rossin House, where, over the good things of this life, the members of the profession will be afforded opportunity of becoming acquainted, and of discussing what objects the Association should seek to attain, and the wisest basis upon which it may work to accomplish its purposes. One of the most important matters to be decided at the meeting, will be the selection of executive officers to direct the affairs of the new Association. It is not too much to say that the success of the Association will depend upon securing men of the highest intelligence, judgment and energy to fill official positions. It is most important, also, that the occupants of these positions should represent various sections of the Province, thus making the Association truly Provincial in its interests and character. Not only would we again request every Ontario architect to attend this meeting, but in the interval, would have him consider carefully everything which might tend to promote or hinder the success of the proposed organization, and come prepared to offer wise counsel, which will help to insure the complete success of the undertaking.

	___________________





T

HE architects of Ontario, in deciding to form themselves into an association for the promotion of the interests of the profession, are wisely recognizing the principle that in union there is strength. It is beyond question that the time has come when the master builders and contractors of Ontario should also take action in this direction. Architects and master builders would then be in a position to work harmoniously together for the welfare of all engaged in the building trades, as has lately been the case in the United States. At the convention of the <assoc>National Association of Builders of the United States </assoc>just closed, some of the leading architects of the country were present, and by carefully prepared papers, assisted the builders to a solution of some of the difficult questions affecting their interests. Among such questions which received careful consideration at the convention, were "Uniform Contracts," "Lien Laws," "Rules and Conditions for Estimating Work," "Permanent Arbitration," "Apprenticeship," the establishment of National Mechanical Trade Schools, etc., "Bureau for Furnishing Sureties on Builders" "Estimates and Contracts," "Uniformity of Measurements and Uniform Size of Brick," "Insurance against Accidents to the Public."



The majority of these subjects might profitably engage the attention of an Association of Ontario master builders. The question of self-interest alone, if no higher motive will prompt the step, should be sufficient to induce the builders to organize. It may fairly be supposed that if the architects and the master builders of Ontario had each an organization, they might, by combining their efforts, remove the possibility of a recurrence of the extensive and disastrous strikes on the part of workmen which in the past have caused such loss to the community as well as to every person directly concerned. Organization can only be met by organization. The labor union is not dependent for financial support upon the locality in which it exists, but is part of an international organization, with an international fund at its back. On the other hand, the master builders in each city or town, having no national or provincial organization, are compelled to rely upon their local resources for means to carry on the fight. If a Provincial Association were formed, with ample financial support at its command, the unions would be more reasonable in their demands, and less eager to precipitate a strike if these demands should not be promptly and entirely complied with. By means of an association the relations of the master builder to the architect might be made more satisfactory than at present; an influence could be exerted to prevent manufacturers and dealers in builders' supplies from giving credit to contractors of no experience or capital, who, having nothing to lose, frequently take contracts at figures below the actual cost of the work, to the detriment of the honest contractor. In these and many other directions which might be mentioned, substantial benefits would accrue to the members of such an organization. We direct attention to the opinions of contractors in favor of organization, which we print elsewhere. There are indications that the movement is taking root. We shall be pleased to publish the views of others on the subject, as we are convinced that the more thoroughly the proposal is discussed the greater will appear the desirability of putting it into practice.



The statements submitted at the annual meeting of the <firm>Byam Manufacturing Co</firm>., manufacturers of specialties in builders' hardware, Hamilton and Toronto, held in this city on the 6th inst., showed the business done during the past year of the Company's existence to have been of a most satisfactory character. The old board of directors was re-appointed, which in turn reelected the old officers: <person>William Bee</person>, president; <person>J. M. Smith </person>vice-president; <person>Sturgeon Stewart</person>, managing director anti secretary-treasurer.

