

<doctype type="text;colophon">THE



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST 0f



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU-

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER Publisher

31 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.

ADVERTISEMENTS 

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day or the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward news paper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.









REPORTS received by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND



BUILDER from various cities and towns throughout the Dominion, and published elsewhere under the heading, "The Building Outlook for 1889," tend to show that a fair amount of building will probably be done during the coming season. There is nothing in the reports to indicate that building operations will be more extensive than last year.





THE "Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book," published as a premium to new subscribers to the CANADIAN ARCH ITECT AND BUILDER, is meeting with general appreciation. We have received a number of congratulatory letters upon the results of our efforts in the compilation of this Hand-Book, one or two of which will suffice to show the favorable reception the book has met with: Messrs. <firm>S. Bowen's Sons, Philadelphia, Pa.</firm>, write: "Through the courtesy of Messrs. <firm>M. & J. L. Vokes</firm>, our Toronto agents, we have received a copy of the "Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book." We must express our pleasure and thanks for this valued little volume, which is full of practical hints and information. If we have not already subscribed to your paper, please put us on your list and oblige." <person>Robert Falbord</person>, Montreal, writes: "I thank you very much. It is a very useful book." We may add that upwards of 150 new subscribers have been added to our list since the publication of our last number. This journal will be made as valuable as possible to the master builder as well as to the architect, and the price at which it is published, not to speak of the handsome inducement which we are at present offering in the Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book, should secure for us as subscribers every master builder who has at heart the promotion of the interests of his business, and desires to be thoroughly equipped to help in its advancement.

THERE are in almost every city ricketty old buildings left

 standing, which are a menace to human life, and should be pulled down. In Montreal the other day a building of this character which, singularly enough, was expected to stand the jarring motion of saw and planing mill machinery, suddenly collapsed. The walls refused any longer to support the roof, which came crashing down upon the workmen, twenty-five in number, employed in the mill. In some miraculous way, all but two escaped uninjured. The less fortunate ones were almost buried under a pile of bricks and timbers, and both were seriously injured. It is the policy of some owners of old buildings to keep them standing as long as they will hold together, and persons can be found willing to risk their lives by living in them. The taxes on such buildings are a mere trifle, while the land on which they stand is in course of time rendered valuable by the improvements of more enterprising owners in the neighborhood. We presume the duties of Building Inspectors are intended to include the oversight of such old structures, as well as of new ones in process of erection. If so, regard for human safety, as well as the appearance and progress of our cities, demands that these duties should be more thoroughly performed.





HERE is a sample of the sage advice which a Toronto daily paper offers to the public on the subject of the proposed new <building>Court House, Toronto </building>and <building>City Hall, Toronto</building>for the city of Toronto:

"What the citizens should do is to defeat the by-law which will shortly be submitted, and put the work of construction in the hands of a competent commission. Then the commission should set aside a sum of money, say $500,000, and call upon builders to say what kind of a building they could put up for the money, awarding the contract to the one who will furnish the best design. The city has already spent a great deal in architects' fees, which would be lost if a new arrangement were entered into, but it would be better to let them go than to have the citizens committed to the building of a structure the cost of which might mount up into millions before it could be completed." In spite of the self-assurance of the writer who would thus settle off-hand a matter which has engaged the serious thought of the Mayor and a committee of the Council of this city for many months, we must express our lack of confidence in the wisdom of his proposal. The absurdity of asking builders to furnish competitive designs for a building of such cost and importance needs not to be pointed out. The conceit of the most conceited builder would scarcely prompt him to such an undertaking. But even supposing that it should, how unenviable would be the lot of the judges who should be appointed to select from the designs submitted, one suited to the requirements of such a building. The worst punishment that could befall the writer of the article in question, would be to be appointed an arbitrator in the case. It is the business of a builder to build, not to design, and in an undertaking of so much importance any attempt to economize in the direction of dispensing with the services and advice of a competent architect, would result in a series of blunders which would eventually cost the citizens many times the amount of the architects' fees, not to speak of the lasting disappointment, consequent upon the erection of an inartistic, and badly-planned structure.

