<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	31.



<article title=" Correspondence - A Provincial Association of Builders and Contractors" author="">A PROVINCIAL ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS AND CON-

TRACTORS.

T

HE following letters have been received on the subject of the formation of a <assoc>Builders and Contractors' Association for the Province of Ontario</assoc>:-

BELLEVILLE, March 7th, 1889.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DEAR SIR,—YOUR suggestion regarding the formation of a <assoc>Provincial Association of Builders and Contractors</assoc> is one of the utmost importance to every builder and contractor, and should be dealt with at the earliest possible moment. In a short letter it would be impossible to enter into a discussion of the subject, and I would therefore suggest that a convention be called at some central point (Toronto, perhaps, would be as convenient as any) to deal with the whole matter. I am glad you have taken this matter in hand.

Yours truly,

<person>THOMAS HANLEY</person>

BOWMANVILLE, March 11th, 1889.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—I am in full sympathy with your views in regard to the formation of a Provincial Association of Builders and Contractors, and have often wondered why no effort has been made before to form an association of the kind. I have talked the matter over with other builders and contractors, and find that they all are favorably impressed. I would be willing to assist all I could to form an association. Hoping that your efforts in this direction will have a successful issue, I remain,

Yours truly,

<person>William Bunney</person>,

of the firm of <firm>Munson & Bunney, contractors and builders</firm>.





HAMILTON, March 11, 1889.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—With regard to your suggestion as to the benefit likely to be derived from a Provincial Association of Contractors, it is a matter which in my opinion is of grave importance, and likely to open up a great many questions. The principle one is the attitude of employees at the present time. If continued in, it must inevitably result in some kind of a combination of contractors, and the questionable benefit or good resulting from such combinations. As one evil begets another, so will the aggressive action of the trades unions be likely to bring into existence combination on the part of employers, with perhaps a mission of usefulness in curbing to some extent the selfish legislation of the trades unions in regard to such matters as the apprentice system for instance, which at present limits almost to exclusion the opportunity of young Canadians to learn trades. The result is, that the ranks of skilled workmen in the building line are largely filled by old country mechanics, who are allowed in their own country to learn such trades as they may have capacity for. They come out here and fill the places our own young men are heirs to, but are practically prohibited from fitting themselves for.

The better remedy for this appears to me to be the establishing of government trade schools, where such a knowledge of trades may be gained as will fit our young men with very little after training to take their place as mechanics. If such schools cannot be brought into existence by the government, here is one purpose which might be served by a Provincial Association of Contractors, whose united action would no doubt be influential in starting such schools and gaining the support of municipalities or government to continue them.

An Association could be of great benefit in many other ways, provided the proper material could be got into it. Here is where the principle difficulty is to be met with; and I do not well see how it is to be overcome. To engage in building the smaller class of buildings, requires but little capital, and less plant. The step from a journeyman to a contractor is the simple matter of getting a small job which a man may figure up after supper in the evening. He will probably be a contractor next morning, oftener through guessing than by any real knowledge of the value of the work he has taken. True, he may turn out to be a good man, but good or bad, he would have to be counted 

in, in forming an Association. There is no standard at present by which fitness for this business can be regulated, and unless men can come up to a certain standard that their quality may be known, they could not be considered safe members of an association. Instead of giving strength to it, they would be a source of weakness, and would prey upon it. Still, as I said before, they would have to be included, as the association of a portion of the contractors who might live up their agreements, would be handicapped by the tact that others not included in the association could do as they considered most expedient.

I have not more time at present, but would like to see the views of abler men than myself on the matter.

Yours truly,

M.	<person>A. PIGOTT</person>

Contractor.



<article title="Extemporized Scaffolding" author="Maginnis, Owen B.">EXTEMPORIZED SCAFFOLDING.

By OWEN B. MAGINNIS.



B

UILDERS throughout the country in their daily practice, find it necessary to erect temporary scaffolding, and in doing so usually employ scrap-stuff or some of the material they intend using in the building. These scaffolds require to be handy, take little time in constructing, and must at the same time be strong and suitable for safely sustaining men and material. With a view to assist builders to a rapidly formed system of scaffolding the following is submitted:

The handiest, though not always the most applicable form, is the bracket scaffold, which consists of a number of permanently framed timber brackets, placed on a line, at a convenient distance apart, on which to rest the planks. Each bracket measures about 4 X 4 feet, and is framed together of 1 ½  inch, or 2 X 3 inch sound spruce, for lightness and strength.

It is held in its place on the frame wall by a 3/4 inch round iron bolt, which is forged long enough to pass through the boarding and studding, and a 2 inch block, which spans two studs inside. The end of the bolt is tapped and the bracket can be screwed tight against the boarding by a screw, key and washer. The bolt is fastened to the bracket under the horizontal arm, after passing through a hole in the vertical arm, by being forged flat and bored and bolted to it with ¼ inch bolts which are countersunk on the upper side of the arm, to permit the plank to rest level on it.

All that is required to affix these brackets to the building is to bore a hole for the bolt, and they hang quite safe and will sustain the weight of any ordinary quantity of boards or siding. They can also be put up for boarding, and taken down as each strip of covering is finished.

In the absence of the above, a good safe scaffold can be quickly made of

joists and 7/8 inch covering or roofing boards. Cleats gained out the thickness of the bracket board are first got out, and to the gain a bracket piece is well nailed; the outer end of the bracket piece is next nailed square to the side of a sound joist at the required height, and the three together are then nailed by the cleat through the wall boarding into a stud. If much weight is to put on the scaffold, blocks should be nailed under the bracket piece on the vertical joist to take the strain off the nails, especially when hemlock joists are used for uprights.

A very simple way of gaining a strong scaffold is to lay joists on their edges across brackets no more than ten feet apart, with ledgers placed across their upper edges, on which the planks rest. It is also very convenient when the scaffolding planks are not forthcoming, and boards are substituted, and it saves a double thickness of boards. This scaffold is braced diagonally, and in order to increase its height, another joist can be placed on the top end of the bottom one, and the joist secured by nailing a 7/8 cleat across it.

A useful and easily removed scaffold for putting on roof boarding consists of simple brackets nailed through the roof boarding into the rafters beneath, with a plank laid across them to stand on.

When the boarding is all on, and the window frames and cornice set, one of the next accessories is a handy shingling stage. After the first courses have been laid, it is usual to form a scaffold out of joist laid against the roof on their edge, and fastened by shingles. The best way, however, is to shingle the joist in, by nailing the shingles to it, and fastening them in a course of shingles, keeping those nailed on the joist down, so that the joist will come below the butts of those in the course. These can be cut off when the scaffold is no longer needed, and the roof will not have been in any way injured.

The handiest scaffold which a carpenter and builder can adopt for setting cornices over store fronts, consists of a piece of 8 or 9 inches x 1 inch spruce board nailed square across near the ends of two joists at the desired height, far enough apart to permit each joist to stand respectively, allowing for the difference in their levels on the store floor and sidewalk. When the number of these frames needed is nailed together, they are placed in position, braced diagonally, and the plank laid across them. This method makes a very convenient, firm scaffold, and costs very little time.



Messrs. <firm>Harding & Seathorne, of London, Ont., </firm>contractors for the construction of the Goderich water works system, have successfully completed the work.

