<doctype type="text">THE  CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the time has arrived when something in this direction ought to be done. It is a lamentable fact that as things exist we can scarcely do an honest, legitimate business, and pay 100 cents in the dollar. In making this statement, I am saying what I know to be true, and doubtless numbers of your readers can bear me out in what I say. This deplorable condition of affairs is caused by the class that my friend and your correspondent, Mr. <person>Piggott, </person>in your last issue, referred to—who suddenly conceive the idea that they will go "bossing," and who have not one cent of capital to put in the business in which they intend to embark, and who consequently have nothing to lose should they fail, as so many of them do to the discomfiture of their creditors. The latter, however, are entitled to very little sympathy. This state of things is far from being fair to the honest contractor, who is thus handicapped. How is it possible for him to do a legitimate business?

How can this state of things be amended? may be asked. There are many ways and means which could be employed. I think right here is where the proposed <assoc>Builders' and Contractors Association </assoc>could work effectually to remedy the present state of things. My first suggestion is:

No man should be allowed to become a member until he has first proved himself to be skilled in his particular business, and to have a good reputation in the community. Secondly, the dealers and merchants could mater-ally assist us, and in doing so would benefit themselves as well, by not giving credit to men without first having ascertained whether they are worthy of it. I claim if this was done it would be of vast benefit both to contractors, merchants and also to proprietors. The latter would not then, as now, be put to inconvenience by liens being placed on their buildings. In the third place. the architects could and should assist us in every way in their power.

Pardon me if I appear to digress a little from the subject just now. I noticed in your March issue an article from my friend <person>F. G. Rastrick</person>, architect, in which he winds up by saying ' We are determined with the aid of our brother architects in the province to raise the status of the profession to its proper level." I was right glad to see that the architects had come to that determination, because if they carry it out, I am very sure the status of contractors and builders will also be raised to us proper level, and all the shoddy work now being done on buildings will be abolished, and as a consequence, the shoddy contractors also, which would be a lasting benefit to all parties concerned. Pardon me if I have trespassed too much on your valuable paper. but I could not resist the temptation which you put in my way of ventilating my feelings. Trusting to hear from many others on what I consider to be a subject of vital importance, I am,

Yours truly,

<person>ALFRED HANNAFORD</person>.



<article title="Suggestions for Builders" author="Maginnis, Owen B.">SUGGESTIONS FOR BUILDERS.

BY OWEN B. MAGINNIS.



IN raising framed walls, it is best when possible, to raise the framing in

sections instead of putting up single sticks, the usual practice. For instance, in raising an end wall, the corner post, girts and braces (if they are framed in), should be put together and draw-pinned and the whole bent raised at once. In ordinary work a man at each post will be enough to raise it, with a rope and man pulling attached to the centre of the girt. Temporary board braces can be nailed on to secure the posts plumb when they are upright. After the opposite bent is raised, the cross ties are raised up and slipped into their mortises and pinned. Crooked and bent studs should always be set in position with their hollow side out, as the boarding will draw them forward and make a straight surface on the face of the wall, whereas, if the round sides be kept out it will be liable to render the wall bulgy and uneven. All window and door studs should be double and care should be taken to keep them back far enough, or rather to make the window opening wide enough to ensure at least 2 1/2 inches between the back of the pulley stile in the frame and the stud, also to have the face of the stud either straight or at least hollow, this being done to leave room enough to allow the sash weights to run. Door studs should always be straight. Pitched bridging in partitions is infinitely preferable to straight, as the settlement of the partition will tighten the former when the latter will get looser and crack the wall as it settles down. Each piece ought to fit well against each stud, and be marked at each opening. If the walls are high, four inch partitions should have a double row of bridging, as the joists are very springy on their flat, and the bridging stiffens them a great deal.

Another important precaution is to mark the exact positions of the studs on the floor with a piece of chalk, or black lead the object in doing this is that it will save a carpenter a lot of time sounding the wall to find them, and prevent the soft plaster from being marked when putting down base or nailing on chair rail, etc. Brick wall spruce furring ought in all cases to be more thorough than it usually is, that is to say well nailed into the brick joints and spaced for the lathe. It is too bad to put extra expense on the contracting plasterer by shaking the furring and plaster all to pieces when the carpenter is putting on his base or chair rail, causing more patching, especially where hard wood trim is specified, which jars more in nailing. When it can be managed, I would recommend builders to do all the furring for base before the plaster is put on; scrap strips will do it admirably, and it will make the wood work fit nicely against the plaster, but I would not favor the practice of setting window and door jambs before the white coat is applied, as not only are they liable to be spattered over with plaster, but the edges and arrises are in danger of being broken off, spoiling the ap-

pearance of the work. The plan, however, has its merit, as it makes the plaster come fair with the edges, and ensures the trim fitting close against, but it ought not to be followed even in common work.

While writing on this subject let me advise builders to see that their jambs are got out wide enough at the shop or mill, to span the plaster when they are set in the building. There is a great deal of time lost when these are narrow, because the plaster has to be dug off to make the casings come far on the face. If there be a double floor it is best to put the base down first and to fit the finishing floor up against its face, by this means providing against the liability of the base to shrink and show the joint at the floor.

In balloon framing it is not usual to use braces of any description, but even though this be the rule, a house is scarcely well framed without a brace of some kind. Some builders in the State of New York insert a brace at each angle, the upper end of which fits under the girt and against the corner-post, and the lower end sits on the sill about 2 feet or more from the corner-post. This gives a very effective brace and costs little, as only one wall stud has to be cut to it. It is generally made of a wall strip.



<article title=" Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

B

 UILDING prospects are considered very good. Much work which was placed in the hands of the architects a year ago, when a drop in prices of building materials was anticipated, and withdrawn when prices refused to drop, will be carried out this season. The largest structure to be erected will be the new hospital. A large number of residences will be built.

Plans are being prepared for alterations to block on Beaver Hall Hill to cost $3,000, for two new houses on Dorchester St. west, to cost $6,000 each; and stores on St. Catharines St. west, to cost about $5,000. Mr. <person>P. Williams </person>is the architect.

The <firm>Department of Public Works, Ottawa</firm>, has been asked to adopt the scheme for the construction of a canal from above Victoria bridge to a point opposite Boucherville Island as the best means of preventing floods.

Mr. Roswell Fisher will erect a five story apartment house at the corner of Sherbrooke and Crescent Sts. The structure will be built of stone and red brick, and is designed to be fire proof. Each floor will contain four homes, each home consisting of kitchen, maids pantry, bath and W. C. and from four to seven family rooms.

The Council is to be petitioned to sanction the widening of St. Lawrence street to be continued north of Sherbrooke. The average increase in width would be 15 feet. The value of land to be expropriated would be $30,000 and the value of buildings about $300,000. It is proposed that the cost of the work, about $50,000 should he assessed equally upon the property. owners and the city.



<article title=" Correspondence - Winnipeg" author="">WINNIPEG



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

Our city fathers seem afraid to come to a decision re The Market Competition, and they have made a regular mess of it. They first of all advertised for competitive designs on such ridiculous conditions, that none of the architects would submit plans. The Council then amended their resolution to suit the architects, and on the 6th of March six different designs were received by them. Now they do not know what to do with them. The committee recommended one of the designs, and then changed their minds and wished all the designs to be returned and new ones made, as they had decided to pull down the old building. Now it is all referred to an expert (?). This expert is one of our city contractors. That the council are doing their best to insult the profession is what most people would think upon reading any of the resolutions in regard to the competition.

The Provincial Government have invited six architects in the Province to submit designs in ink, to an 1/8 inch scale and bill of quantities, for a reformatory, to cost $20,000; a home for incurables, to cost $15,000: and a deaf and dumb asylum, to cost $15,000 all to be of solid brick with stone foundations and basement. These designs are to go in on the 10th 17th and 24th inst. It is to be hoped the Government will decide On their architect as soon as possible, or contractors and men will be looking elsewhere for work, as there are not any other jobs of consequence actually decided upon.

Mr. <person>Fisher</person> will erect a private residence of stone to cost $5.000 The Methodists of Moosomin intend to build a church this season. Mr. <person>Henderson </person>of Carberry, is building a small house. The trustees of the Children's home will build a new home. Mr. <person>Van Allan </person>is building a private house





<article title=" Correspondence - A Building Bureau" author="">A BUILDING BUREAU.

ONE of our correspondents writes as follows:	"I am glad to see that



the Toronto City Council is considering a building by-law—an ordinance which is urgently needed in this city—and it is with satisfaction that I observe the names of two of our leading architects on the special committee which is dealing with its construction.

The plumbing by-law was left very much to the tender mercies of providence in its last stages. No professional men were on the committee, with the result that there were a number of conditions introduced into it which a professional mind could have rectified and eliminated. The Architectural Guild which we soon hope to recognize under a more cosmopolitan name

