<doctype type="text;colophon">PRICE 20 CENTS

	VOL. 11.—No IV.	TORONTO, CANADA, APRIL, 1889.	$2.00 PER YEAR.



—THE—



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMTER, Publisher,

31 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.





The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.

In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the Canadian Architect and Builder its official paper.





 ANOTHER Montreal building collapsed a few days ago, with it is feared fatal results to two persons employed therein. As in the case of the building referred to last month, the walls appear to have been weak, and bulged out beneath the weight of the roof. What is the matter with the Montreal inspection service?



A

 DECISION in the matter of the erection of the new <building>Toronto City Hall </building>and <building>Toronto Court House </building>in accordance with the design recently published in this journal, may now be looked for. In order to carry out the present design, $600,000 in addition to the amount already voted for the purpose is required. The Council has decided to submit a by-law to the citizens for this amount on May 18th.



T

HE introduction of steam boilers for heating purposes into large buildings has brought with it serious danger to life and property. These steam-heating plants are in very many instances placed in charge of persons whose knowledge of the principles of steam engineering and steam engine management is of the most scanty description. The fact that the services of such persons can be secured at a very much lower figure than would have to be paid to properly qualified engineers, is often sufficient to induce owners and lessees of buildings to assume the terrible risks attendant upon their incompetence, In the city of Hartford, Conn., a few nights ago, a hotel was blown to atoms and the lives of many persons destroyed owing to the fact that the so-called "engineer" had tied down the safety-valve on his boiler so that the noise of escaping steam would not prove a cause of annoyance to the occupants of the building. The time has come where persons placed in charge of steam boilers should be compelled to prove their qualifications for the duties of so responsible a position.





 IT is somewhat of a reflection upon those who have in hand the movement in Toronto to secure legislation compelling telegraph, telephone and electric wires to be placed underground, that they did not acquaint themselves with the source from which the necessary legislation for that purpose must be obtained. After allowing the session of the Ontario Legislature to go by, they are told by the Dominion Government that the legislation must come from the Legislature. Owing to the lack of foresight displayed by those connected with the movement, nothing can now be done for another year. Meanwhile, the wires will continue to prove an eye-sore and a source of danger to the public. __________________







A

LREADY in several cities of the United States strikes in building trades are in progress. In Canada, as yet, there are no indications of trouble. Enquiry amongst Toronto architects and builders leads us to the conclusion that this season at least is likely to pass unmarred by the almost yearly recurring disputes between employees and employers. In view of the fact that shortage of crops and other causes have had a depressing effect upon the country's prosperity for two or three years past, it is the part of wisdom for workmen to refrain from making demands which could not be complied with, and if persisted in, would tend to retard the hoped-for improvement in the business situation. With the early disappearance of snow and frost, enabling builders to commence operations fully a month earlier than usual, and the prospect that the number and value of new buildings will be fully up to the average of the last few years, we may look forward to a season of prosperity in the building trades.



W

HEN comment was recently made upon the fact that Mr. <person>R. A. Waite</person>, of Buffalo, the favorite architect of the Ontario Government was beaten by at least two Canadian firms in the competition for the new <building>Toronto Board of Trade Building</building>, the <firm>Toronto Globe </firm>rushed to the defence and declared that Mr. R. A. Waite was not a competitor for the Board of Trade Building. As the names of the competing architects were not obtainable at the time the Globe's statement appeared, a positive disapproval could not be given to it. Knowing however, that Mr. R. A. Waite had been invited by the committee to enter the Board of Trade competition, we requested <person>Prof. Ware</person>, who was appointed to judge the plans, to furnish us with a list of the competitors. This he has been kind enough to do. The names are published on another page of this paper, and a perusal of them will show that Mr. Waite did compete, with what result is already known. We have taken the trouble thus to disprove the Globe's statement in order to show that Canadian architects have in the interests of a foreigner been deprived of work which they were justly entitled to both on account of their superior ability and their residence in Canada.

