<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



members who were in any way tied to their business, and it might have the effect of reducing the number present. Amendment lost.

Moved by Mr. <person>Storm</person>, seconded by Mr. <person>Balfour</person> that Article I of the by-laws be amended by adding "The annual meeting of the Association shall be held upon the third Wednesday in November, or such other time as the Board of Directors may fix, and at such a place as shall be designated by a majority vote of members at the previous annual meeting. Carried.

ARTICLE II.—The meetings of this Association shall be conducted in accordance with Todd's Parliamentary Practice.'" Carried.

ARTICLE 111.—All officers shall be elected annually by a majority ballot vote at an annual meeting of this Association.' Carried.



"ARTICLE IV.—All papers, books and other records shall at all times be open to the inspection of the members of this Association. Carried without any discussion.



ARTICLE V.—All members of this Association shall pay an annual fee of $5.



In amendment Mr. Balfour moved, seconded by Mr. Alexander, that all members of the Association shall pay an annual fee of five dollars, which must be paid not later than May 1st, in each or every year or part thereof, and that members in arrears shall not be entitled to vote at the annual meeting. Carried.

Some one asked here when this fee should be paid, and the chairman in reply stated that it was understood all members present would pay their $5 fee before leaving, whether their neighbor did or not. (laughter.) There would be a provision later on regarding new members.

"ARTICLE VI.—All applicants for membership in this Association shall be referred to the Board of Directors, who shall investigate their standing, and, if found qualified, recommend them for election." Carried.

"ARTICLE VII—All applicants for membership recommended by the Board of Directors are to be voted upon by letter ballot, and thirty days are to be allowed members in which to return their ballots. Five ballots cast against any such applicant will be sufficient for his rejection.'

It was moved by Mr. <person>Townsend</person>, that instead of five ballots rejecting a man, it should be 25 per cent. of those present.

Moved in amendment by Mr. Storm, to insert that on the return of the ballot papers the Board of Directors appoint scrutineers for counting the ballots. The article was carried thus, combined with Mr. Townsend's amendment.

Mr. <person>Curry</person> moved, seconded by Mr. <person>Gregg</person>, that Article 7 be re-considered. Carried.

Mr. Curry then moved that instead of 25 per cent. being necessary to keep a man out, 10 per cent, should be sufficient, and in support of this argued that they didn't want as members any persons who after the recommendation of the Board of Directors, could not carry 90 per cent. of the votes of the Association.

Mr. <person>King Arnoldi </person>replied, opposing the amendment on the grounds that it was too bad to reject a man by 10 votes out of a hundred.

Mr. <person>Lennox </person>supported Mr. Curry, and the motion was carried with this addition: and that on the return of the ballot papers the Board of Directors shall appoint scrutineers for the counting of the papers, whose names shall be submitted to the Association together with the ballot papers."

ARTICLE VIII.—Twenty members shall form a quorum for the transaction of business."

In amendment Mr. Gregg moved, seconded by Mr. Storm, "That twenty members shall constitute a quorum of the Association for business, and that five officers form a quorum for the Board of Directors' meeting.' Carried.

ARTICLE IX.—Moved by Mr. Arnoldi, seconded by Mr. Edwards, that a special meeting of the Association may be called at any time that the Board of Directors may consider necessary for the furtherance of the business of the Association, and a general meeting of the Association shall be held at any time upon requisition signed by 25 members in good standing, to the Board of Directors, giving fifteen days notice to the members of such meeting, and stating the business to be considered." Carried.

AR TICLE X. —Moved by Mr. Arnoldi, seconded by Mr. <person>Walton</person>, that "the fiscal year of the Association shall end on the 31st day of October in each year, to which date the books of the Association shall be made up and audited by the Auditors appointed at the annual meeting."

ARTICLE XI.—The By-Laws of this Association can be amended at any meeting by a vote of two-thirds of the members present." Carried.

During the discussion of this clause, in reply to an enquiry, the chairman stated it was the intention that the power of voting by proxy" should apply only to changes of the Constitution.

'ARTICLE X.—The ordinary travelling and hotel expenses of officers and committees attending business meetings shall be defrayed out of funds in the treasury of the Association subject to the approval of the Board of Directors." Carried.

Moved by Mr. <person>Gouinlock, </person>seconded by Mr. Storm, that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER be appointed the official organ of the Ontario Association of Architects." Unanimously carried.

'ARTICLE XIII.—Moved by Mr. Curry. seconded by Mr. <person>Soule</person>, that a member shall after election pay his fees within two weeks. Carried.

'ARTICLE XIV. —Moved by Mr. Curry, seconded by Mr. Soule, that the Board of Directors meet at the call of any three members of the Board.

The by-laws were then adopted in full, having been previously passed, clause by clause.

Mr. <person>Darling</person>, on behalf of the nomination Committee, presented the report of the Committee, recommending the election of the following officers President, W. G. Storm first Vice President, Mr. Arnoldi, Ottawa; second Vice President, Mr. Durand, London 3rd Vice-President, James Balfour, Hamilton; Secretary, S. H. Townsend, Toronto Treasurer, Mr.

D. B. Dick; Directors. Messrs. Belcher, Burke, Power, Mulligan and Curry.

The chairman asked if these names were acceptable, and on motion of Mr. Gregg, the report was adopted.

Mr. Gregg said that without any reflection whatever on Mr. Townsend, it was desirable that Mr. Langton should be secretary. Hereupon Mr. Langton declined to act, stating that he would esteem it a pleasure to be of assistance but feared his knowledge of business was deficient

Mr. Lennox also favored Mr. Langton as secretary, reciting his labors in the interests of the meeting as an indication of his willingness, and stating that he thought Mr. Langton amply qualified for the position.

Mr. Langton put an end to the discussion by declining to act.

In taking the chair, Mr. Storm said : Gentlemen, this is an unexpected

pleasure to me, for I had but little idea when I came here to assist in the formation of our Association, you would honor me by making me one of your officers. I sincerely, heartily and gratefully thank you for the honor you have bestowed upon me. (Applause.)

A vote of thanks to Mr. Durand for his services as chairman of the meeting, was moved by Mr. Lennox and seconded by Mr. <person>Gemmell</person>.

Mr. Durand replied thanking the members for their courtesy and saying he did the best he could as chairman and was as pleased as any present that his efforts had been successful. Said he: I think if there is one thing that has helped me more than another, it is the fact that I have no knowledge whatever of that book known as Todds Parliamentary Rules, and which we have now adopted for our future guidance." (Applause and laughter.)

Mr. Bousfield moved, seconded by Mr. <person>Paull</person>, that the hearty thanks of the meeting be tendered to Mr. <person>Langton</person> for his services to-day and in connection with the calling of the meeting. Carried unanimously.

Mr. Langton replied: I have to thank you gentlemen for your kindness I would be willing to do a great deal more in the future than I have done this afternoon to advance the profession. (Applause).

Mr. Edwards: There is just one thing yet to do. I think we should express the thanks we fed to the gentlemen who have been instrumental in bringing about this meeting. I would therefore move, and I am sure I express the sentiment of all those present, that we do now place on record our hearty appreciation of the efforts of the gentlemen who arranged this meeting.

Mr. Durand: I have pleasure in seconding this, and would couple with the motion the names of Messrs. Curry and Townsend, who may perhaps give us some history of how their efforts were made. (Applause.)

Mr. Curry in responding said: I don't want to waste the valuable time of the meeting in making a bad speech. (Laughter). So far as any personal effort of mine is concerned, I am very glad, and will always be glad to be of any possible service to my fellow laborers in a profession of which we all are proud, and which I trust we will all seek to maintain. I am very well satisfied with the way the meeting has turned out. There has been shown here an interest which if continued to be manifested, will ensure the success of this organization. I don't think there is one here who will go away with the idea that our Association is not going to be a success (cries of no, no). Speaking for myself I will certainly do all I can to make it a success. A good deal depends on good officers, and more especially on a good secretary, such as I believe you have in Mr. Townsend. (Applause.)

Mr. Townsend: I am not going to attempt to make a speech. With the interests of the Association and of my profession at heart, I will do all I can to make our labors a success. We have certainly had a very successful meeting here to-day. Again I thank you for your kind expressions.

Mr. Darling: I am obliged for what you have said. Any work that I may have done in assisting in our organization has given me the greatest of pleasure, and I hope now we will see our Association a continued success. (Applause.)

Moved by Mr. Balfour, seconded by Mr. Darling, that all practising architects in Ontario who join the Association and pay their fee within one month shall be admitted on the same terms as those present. Carried.

The form of application was approved of with the change ' drawing or photograph" instead of "photograph."

Moved by Mr. Lennox, seconded by Mr. Gregg, that the appointment of Standing Committees such as are necessary for conducting the business of the Association be for this year left in the hands of the Board of Directors. Carried.

On motion of Mr. Lennox. seconded by Mr. Gregg, it was decided to hold the next annual meeting in Toronto.



<article title="The Banquet" author="">THE BANQUET.



In the evening the Architectural Guild of Toronto entertained the members of the newly-formed Association at a banquet at the Queen's Hotel. The menu was of the choicest character, and in the discussion of its merits closer acquaintanceships were formed and feelings of hearty cordiality engendered. Mr. <person>D. B. Dick </person>presided, the vice-chair being occupied by Mr. <person>W. G. Storm</person>. These gentlemen performed the duties of their respective positions in an exceedingly graceful manner. In opening the toast list the chairman said the present was the first occasion upon which any considerable number of the architects of Ontario had met together. He might go farther and say it was the first time that all the architects of Toronto had met together. True an attempt was made some twelve years ago to form

