



<doctype type="text">The manager of a New York Company with whom we had a conversation recently, complained of the difficulty experienced in inducing architects to enquire into and test the merits of any new article introduced for use in the construction of buildings. He took the view that it was not the least important duty which the architect owed to his client to acquaint himself with the nature and value of every new article placed upon the market. Instead of this, there appeared to be an unwillingness on the part of the majority of architects to take the trouble to learn for themselves the merits of an article which might for the first time be brought to their notice. We could not help thinking that the gentleman's contention was a just one, and we trust that whatever may be the practice of American architects, the members of the profession in Canada will not be slow to show their appreciation or otherwise based upon their personal knowledge, of new materials of construction which may from

time to time be introduced. The architect who desires to assist the march of architectural improvement, should seek to encourage those engaged in the production of appliances designed to add to the beauty, safety and convenience of the buildings of the future.



T

HE architects of Ontario are to be congratulated upon the successful formation of an Architectural Association for this Province. The meeting held in this city with that object on March 21st, both as regards its representative character, the large number in attendance, and the enthusiasm and unanimity which marked the proceedings, was a pleasant surprise to many. It revealed a feeling of deep interest, which augurs well for the future of the newly-formed Association and the architecture of this country. To the <assoc>Architectural Guild of Toronto </assoc>is due the credit of bringing about the meeting with its attendant results. We believe a wise choice has been made in the officers selected to manage the affairs of the Association. They will doubtless bring to the discharge of their duties the energy and wisdom which will serve to stimulate and maintain the interest of all the members in the work of the Association. We desire to acknowledge the kindness which prompted the Association to make the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER its official paper. It will give us pleasure to advance in any way possible the worthy objects which the Association has in view One of the first things we feel called upon to do is to urge every architect who was not present at the recent meeting to send in at once his application for membership in the Association, and join heartily in the movement to place the profession of architecture in Ontario on a more satisfactory basis than it has hitherto occupied.	__________________





W

 E publish this month several more letters from contractors on the subject of the formation of a <assoc>Builders' and Contractors' Association for the Province of Ontario</assoc>. All express a desire to see such an Association formed. Doubts have been expressed by more than one of our correspondents as to whether the members of an Association could be got to live up to the standard agreed upon. In the opinion of others sufficient interest would not be taken in the objects of the Association to induce attendance at the meetings. We should be sorry to believe that these fears are well founded. Are not our builders and contractors as much alive to their interests as those of the United States, where delegates to the meetings of the <assoc>National Association of Builders</assoc> come from every State in the Union? There are in every walk of life men too apathetic to take part in a movement of this kind and too short-sighted to see that time and money spent in considering and putting in operation means for the improvement of the business in which they are engaged, is not lost, but is certain sooner or later to bring its individual reward. In London, Ont., the feeling in favor of Association is so strong that unless an Ontario Association be formed, affiliation may be sought with the National Association of the United States. While we have the greatest admiration for our American neighbors, we should be sorry to see our master builders entering the Association of the United States instead of organizing themselves into a Canadian Association. Many of the most important objects to be accomplished

April, 1889





can only be attained by a Canadian Association. The favor with which the proposition to form a Provincial Association has been received, would seem to leave little room to doubt that a representative meeting of builders and contractors throughout the Province could be got together at some central point for organization. Perhaps, as suggested by one of our correspondents, no more suitable or convenient place could be selected than Toronto. Builders and contractors of other cities appear to be waiting to hear the views of some of our Toronto builders on this subject. In our next issue we hope to be able to present these, after which we trust some definite steps may be taken toward organization.



W

E regret that the " Canada First " sentiment which strongly characterized the proceedings at the banquet of the Toronto Board of Trade a few months ago, appears to have been lost sight of entirely when the question of who should be entrusted with the erection of the new Board of Trade building recently came up for decision. The report of the expert who judged the plans, speaks as follows concerning the work of two of the Canadian competitors:

"But the design bearing the title "Utility," (one of two thus designated), shows an external treatment so effective and original that it deserves to be urged upon the Committee's attention. It is seldom in my opinion that one comes across a design so noticeably out of the common course, which is at the same time so simple, rational and dignified. It was, moreover, to my mind, just the character suited to a business building, which is at the same time the seat of a public institution.	"The design marked Ten Per Cent'  has to my mind no advantages of plan over that just spoken of. * * These plans, though not as good as the others, are good enough. If they (the Committee), agree with me in regard to great merits of the design marked "Utility," in its external treatment then I recommend that they take such measures as may prove practicable to combine this elevation with the other plans. Fortunately there is nothing in this elevation" to prevent its fitting the plans of the design marked Ten Per Cent."	

 



The design marked "Utility" was submitted by Messrs. <firm>Darling & Curry</firm>, and the one marked "Ten Per Cent," by Messrs. <firm>Gordon & Helliwell</firm>, both Toronto firms. Messrs. Darling & Curry's elevations are declared to be in the best of taste and exactly suited to the requirements. Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell's plans are said to be "good enough," and easily adapted to the elevations of the other Canadian firm. Under these circumstances we are led to wonder why the Building Committee did not manifest their patriotism by adopting the expert's suggestion to combine the elevations of the one Canadian firm with the plans of the other. Instead of so doing, however, they gave the entire work to a foreign architect, with the added privilege of amending both his elevations and plans. It is impossible to conceive of a committee of American business men under similar circumstances discriminating thus against their own countrymen. Not only has an injustice been done to our native architects, but also to our manufacturers and dealers in building materials, as the foreign architect naturally uses his influence to secure the use of foreign materials. Thus money earned in Canada is sent abroad to enrich the manufacturers of a foreign country, instead of being made a means of assisting those who are endeavoring to build up industrial enterprise in Canada. In the face of such conduct, protestations of loyalty to things Canadian amount to nothing.



A

 SPECIAL committee of the City Council has been appointed to consider the advisability of establishing classes for the purpose of imparting practical scientific instruction to the industrial classes of the city. Our opinion is that such instruction should not be provided by the City Council, but by the Provincial Government the Council might, possibly should, give assistance in the form of a grant of money to the schools. That technical schools would be managed successfully or economically by the City Council we very much doubt. It might be done if the Council would be content to provide such funds as in its opinion the city could afford, and then place the management of the school in a board of five or seven capable men appointed because of their knowledge of technical matters. A technical school could be made of very great service and value to all industrial classes. But there is much to fear from men who have hobbies which they wish adopted. One man believes that some one particular subject should be taught, and that in a special manner. Another believes that something else should be taught, or that the last man is infringing on the rights of some

