<doctype type="text;plate">60	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	May, 1889



inch and a half in thickness because it is important to have a bed for mortar in raising the corners.

Now, gentlemen of the convention, you have a short but concise description of the coming building material of the country. If the details are followed, and the mason work well done with the blocks as above described, a cheap, durable, dry wall can be made that will far excel in beauty and cost an ordinary brick wall, but our theme is just begun. We have the subject only just blocked out. I have described only a plain smooth wall with no ornamentation, not even a round corner. When it comes to a question of art, the field before us is limitless. Varieties of mouldings that can be made on the fine of blocks for special use as water tables, belting courses, cornices, trimmings around the windows, etc., etc., are too extensive for more than mere mention in a paper of this kind. Also beaded work, either coarse or fine or the	two combined in the same block, or what is called in stone work Crandall finish. These and numberless other kinds of finish, furnish opportunities for the student of art to expend his best innovative skill in planning combinations for beautifying and ornamenting to a degree far beyond our present conception, and will at the same time add but a trifle to the cost of constructing, beyond the use of just such a plain, smooth, simple block. The cost of a mould is small for the manufacture of either plain or ornamental blocks, so that the manufacturer can afford, if he has to, almost any design at a trifling expense over a plain block. We have made no mention yet of the possibility of producing beautiful varieties for artistic effect, of the various combinations that can be made with brick or terra cotta work mixed in with the different varieties of building blocks.





<article title="Recent Canadian Patents" author="">RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS.

Combined Hot Water and Hot Air Furnace.

No. 30,670. William St. Croix, Toronto, Ont., dated 29th January, 1889.













































Claim.—1st. The cylindrical coal feeder and water heater letter A, Fig. 5. combined in one arrangement, substantially as described above, and shown on the several figures of the drawings accompanying this specification. 2nd. The coal shute or feed box letter B, Fig. 5. arranged with the ventilator in the door thereof letter J. with the slide H at the bottom thereof, and the gas escape G at the top thereof, all shown on figure 3rd. The gas tight joint or attachment of the cylinder to the furnace, as above described and shown in the drawings, letters E and F, Fig. 4. also the mode of placing the coal feeder, and water heater A into the furnace without fastenings, so that the same may be lifted out of the furnace and replaced again at pleasure without difficulty or injury to the furnace. 4th. The combination of hot water and hot air generators in one furnace, as shown, and described in this specification and in the accompanying drawings, all substantially as set forth.

Sectional Hot Water Boiler.

No. 30,781. <person>Edward Gurney</person>, Toronto, Ont., dated 14th Feb. 1889.



































Claim.—1st. A section having its top and bottom plates arched inwardly, the vertical portion connecting the top and bottom plates being curved on a large easy sweep, substantially as and for the purpose specified. 2nd. A section having its top and bottom plates arched inwardly, the vertical portion connecting the top and bottom plates being curved on a large easy sweep, and a bead cast on the outer edge of the bottom of each section to overlap the section on which it rests, substantially as and for the purpose specified.

Sectional Hot Water Boiler.



No. 30,782. Edward Gurney, Toronto, Ont., dated 14th February, 1889.

  Claim--1st. A hollow ash-pit section having a water-space formed in its bottom, and communicating directly with all the other water spaces in the boiler, and with the return pipe or pipes, substantially as and for the purpose specified. 2nd. A hollow ash-pit section having a water-space formed in its bottom, and communicating directly with all the water-space in the boiler, and with an extension chamber or chambers formed in the section, and having a hole or holes pierced in its or their crown to receive the return pipe or pipes, substantially as and for the purpose specified.



Sectional Hot Water Boiler.



No. 30,822. Edward Gurney, Toronto, Ont., dated 19th, February, 1889.































Claim.—1st. In a sectional hot water boiler, having a series of vertical smoke flues made in its centre, in combination with a disc-shaped damper pivoted in the centre of the section, and having holes pierced through it to correspond with the smoke-flues in the section, the whole being arranged substantially as and for the purpose specified. 2nd. In a sectional hot water boiler, having a series of vertical smoke flues D made in its centre, in combination with a disc-shaped damper A pivoted in the centre of the section, and having holes C pierced through it to correspond with the smoke-fines D In the section B; stops F and G extend above the section B, and a handle E attached to the damper A and extending to the outside of the section B, substantially as and for the purpose specified.





<firm>Hiram Walker & Sons</firm>, of Walkerville, intend starting a large brick industry near Kingsville. Ont.



The <firm>Imperial Portland Cement Company </firm>has been incorporated with headquarters at Montreal, and a capital of $100,000.



A manager has been appointed to run the <firm>Bennett 'Furnishing Works at London, Ont., </firm>until a satisfactory sale can be effected.



The owners of the <firm>Madoc black marble quarry </firm>are to give their property a critical inspection with the view of resuming operations.

 Messrs. <firm>Clare Bros., </firm>manufacturers of heating apparatus, etc., Preston, Ont., have recently been making important additions to their works.

The <firm>Toronto Radiator Company </firm>have lately purchased the large manufactory of the <firm>Toronto Stove Mfg. Co., </firm>and are adding thereto an extension of 66 feet.

It is said a company of French and Belgian capitalists has decided to establish an iron pipe factory in Three Rivers, Que., which will employ 700 or 800 men.

A new Asbestos company is issued in England with a capital of £40,000. to acquire and work four properties in South Garthby and Coleraine, Quebec. <person>Alfred White </person>of Quebec. is the vendor.

A company of Syracuse capitalists; with a capital of $100,000. has purchased an inexhaustible granite quarry on Grindstone Island in the St. Lawrence. The granite is said to be of the finest quality.

The waste cuttings of cork are said to be used in England for the manufacture of bricks impervious to heat and dampness. The cuttings are reduced to powder and mixed with lime or clay and then pressed into bricks in the usual manner.

A simple way of approximately ascertaining the cost of a building is to "cube it out." This consists of first finding the number of cubic feet in the building—measuring from half way down the footing to half way up the roof—and multiplying by a figure which represents the cost of a single cubic foot. By figuring on buildings of which the cost is known, it is an easy matter to obtain the prices of the unit foot in different descriptions of buildings.

