<doctype type="text">May, 1889	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	-	59



<article title="Deaoration and Furniture" author="">DECORATION AND FURNITURE.



UPON entering a room, anyone in the habit of thinking about repose, order or design, can see at a glance whether fastidious taste has presided over the selection of its furniture and choice of decorations, or mere reliance placed upon the recommendation of the decorator, upholsterer, or commission agent.

One of the most important features in the proper adornment of the interior of our houses, and one certainly the 'least considered, says the Plumber and Decorator, is the curves of the various articles of furniture, and of matters of decoration generally. The correct arrangement of outline gives a peculiar character to all the finest furniture. It has been urged that the "composition of curves will be most agreeable when the mechanical means of describing them shall be least apparent." We know that at the best period of art the curves used in mouldings and ornaments were those of the higher order, such as conic sections; whilst in the period of declining art, circles and compass work prevailed. In the choice, therefore, of your cabriole chairs, tables, and pier-glasses, look to their curves, and to the relation they bear to the other furniture of the room, and to the room itself. This necessity equally applies to all the minor articles where undulatory lines are in use; and, as the laws of beauty are much more arbitrary than is generally supposed, an investigation into the causes which make one article beautiful and another the reverse is a very useful and a very agreeable recreation.

We object to the bulge in a jug because it is too sudden, or we delight in the outline of a vase, or we greatly prefer the oval frame of a particular picture to the other square ones, probably not remembering that our taste has been guided by the most subtle and delicate laws of geometry, plain and solid. Arabesque designs owe their beauty to the highest principles of this science, showing the close relationship between art and science

—so close, indeed, that in some cases it is almost difficult to say where the one begins and the other ends; and so wonderfully formed is the human mind, that it arrives at results and produces wondrous effects before the causes and principles which have led to them are discovered.

The next important matter for consideration is arrangement, so that one, piece of furniture may not unduly obtrude on the observation of the beholder to the detriment of its neighbor, nor its adjacent articles. The eye loves the contemplation of harmony, and no harmony can exist in a chamber, however magnificently furnished, unless proportion is observed. How often the entire beauty of an otherwise well-furnished room is utterly ruined by a gaudy wall-paper or floor carpet, the ill-assorted colors of which dissipate the vision, and do not permit the eye a moment's rest on worthier objects. Repose is so necessary for the visual faculties that they enjoy nothing without it, and as the eye naturally first seeks the floor, it is best fitted for the enjoyment of surrounding objects of beauty if it does not rest on a pattern which might suggest the idea of an iris distorted into madness by the agonies of the loom! The same remarks apply, of course, to the papering of the room. There, again, patterns of all kinds are destructive to the effect of decorative furniture, although, when there are neither pictures on the wall nor ornamental objects around, paper of delicate and appropriate design is an excellent substitute—and comparatively a cheap one—for more expensive means of pleasing the eye and satisfying the taste; but do not indulge in both, for each will be neutralised by the other. In short, a room furnished with incongruous objects, without regard to harmony and arrangement, however admirable they may singly be, is like a room full of people talking at once, making the whole mere jargon and din, even though each individual' speaker may be an 'impersonation of wisdom itself. _______________

<person>George B. Pelham</person>, a prominent New York architect who superintended the erection of the Government buildings at Ottawa. is dead.

Mr. <person>Sanford Fleming </person>of Ottawa, the well-known Civil Engineer, has generously donated $5,000 to the Canadian Institute at Toronto.

Mr. <person>H. Saxon Snell</person>, of London, England, architect of the new Victoria Hospital, Montreal. spent a day or two in visiting the General Hospital and other important structures in Toronto, recently.

<article title="Manufacture of Plain and Ornamental Pressed Brick, Hollow building blocks, etc." author="Penfield, R. C.">MANUFACTURE OF PLAIN AND ORNAMENTAL PRESSED

BRICK, HOLLOW BUILDING BLOCKS, ETC.

By R. C. PENFIELD.*





THIS subject to which we have been assigned, comprises more than can be properly treated in a paper suitable to be read before this Association. We will therefore drop out the ornamental pressed brick portion and so much of the hollow building block part, as should be treated from the stand point of hand made terra cotta, and confine our remarks exclusively to such blocks as can be made on a dry moulding, stiff clay machine or press. Hollow building blocks is certainly a dry subject, and it is doubtful whether we will be able to demonstrate that it has merit either from an economic or an artistic stand point, to give merit to our effort.

Is it not passing strange, if there is anything in it, that it has gone so long undeveloped, or is it one of the lost arts or useless arts? So far as we know, the use of hollow building blocks for general building purposes has never been fully developed in this country. It is true at Cuyahoga Falls, buildings and foundations have been constructed of vitrified hollow blocks of a dark brown or stone ware glaze appearance, that gives one the impression at once of an old jail, and is a failure from an artistic stand point. The <firm>Pioneer Fire Proof Construction Company </firm>of Chicago, have an office built of that kind of material, that is a good effort in that direction and has more artistic merit. There may be other buildings in different portions of our country, but the journals devoted to this art do not, and have not shown how hollow blocks of burned clay can be utilized for general building purposes. Our experience in their manufacture and in the construction of buildings connected with our manufacturing establishment, has demonstrated the fact that blocks do not want to be made too large. The first building we constructed was made of blocks 8x8x12 inches, with only one partition through the centre of the block.

One difficulty with the size of this block is to make them long enough to give the proportion. A block ought to be made three times as long as it is thick to be any where near the relative proportion of a brick. This would require an eight inch block to be 24 inches long. Any one conversant with the manufacture of tile will readily concede the difficulty in making blocks that long, and have them straight. The loss in the manufacture of blocks that size and length, would be much more than smaller ones and more inconvenient to handle, both for the masons as well as for the manufacturers. For general building purposes, the blocks ought not to be more than 12 inches long on account of the openings, and then the architects should space the openings with reference to the length of blocks as nearly as possible. We have established as a proper thickness for a standard block, 5 inches. This is equal to two courses of brick, and makes it convenient to make a bond where brick are required as in chimney breast, etc. Having established the thickness, the relative length naturally follows. For proper proportion, the most pleasing effect will be had if this block is 15 inches long, and it might be well for first-class jobs to make the front blocks that length. This involves another difficulty, and that is making the corner blocks. In every instance the corner blocks are made with what we call a side cut die and cutter, and as the ends of the blocks must be one half the length, this would require a block 7 1/2 wide by 15 in length. This is a large block to make, but it can be done with no particular trouble. The difficulty is in loss by the ordinary accidents of manufacture, and the loss of one large block is greater than a small one, and the liability to loss is greater with the large than with the small. The rule should be not to make blocks longer than 12 inches, and then the corner block will have to be only six inches wide to make the bond correct. About three grades of blocks as to width will accommodate any building from a cheap cottage to a mansion. To commence with a cottage, we would make a block 5x8x12, corners 6x5x12, holes running vertical, side cut. A wall constructed of one course of these blocks would be equal in strength to an 8-inch brick' wall, and the plaster can be placed on the hollow wall direct, and save cost of lathing it, etc. Now the next combination for heavy or thicker walls, can be made by using in connection with these blocks, a block 4x5, and if it should be desirable to make an air space, these blocks can be made one or two inches apart, using the 4x5 for the inside courses, and alternating every six courses, putting the 8-inch block on the inside and the face block for the front. This will make a 13 or 14 inch wall with an air space of 2 inches if desired, or a 12 inch wall without the air space, and in either case, a wall bound thoroughly and very strong. With these two sizes of blocks for stretchers, a number of' combinations can be made. Should it be desirable to make a 16-inch wall, two courses of 8-inch blocks can be used and occasionally a 4 inch-block used to tie courses. Four dies are all that are required to make any of these combinations. One for corners 6x12, this is a side cut die, with shell 1 1/2 or 2 inches thick, one for the window and door jamb, 6x6, cut inches long, same as corner blocks to correspond with the thickness of the stretcher. The walls of these blocks or shell should be 1 inch thick, more or less according to the quality and strength of the clay. The corners are side cut blocks, and should have a shell as remarked above, not less than an



*Read before the <assoc>Ohio Tile, Brick and Drainage Association</assoc>.

