



<doctype type="text">HAMILTON PUBLIC LIBRARY BUILDING COMPETITION.

<article title="Hamilton Plublic Library Building Competition" author="">HAMILTON PUBLIC LIBRARY BUILDING COMPETITION

<building>HAMILTON PUBLIC LIBRARY BUILDING </building>COMPETITION



WE have to record the advent of another set of conditions for a competition, which have been drawn up by persons having no knowledge of the principles which should govern a competition. We certainly did not expect that a Building Committee in a city of the size of Hamilton would distinguish itself by surpassing those of the smaller towns in the unreasonableness of the terms imposed upon any architects who might think fit to compete in the erection of the Free Library Building. We will state our objections to the terms of the competition as briefly as possible, but before doing so, we will attempt to explain why competitions are considered necessary in the erection of important structures.

The principal object of a competition as understood by architects of good standing is, that the best design, both as to plan and exterior composition, may be obtained. When a number of sets of drawings are submitted, the best one of them can be adopted, and thus there is an assurance that the building will be erected according to a reasonably good plan. As it is utterly impossible to prepare in competition a set of drawings on which tenders can be asked, it has become usual to ask for only such drawings as will explain the scheme of the competing architect. The number of changes which must always be made in a set of competition drawings, to meet with the entire approval of a building committee, will necessitate a new set of drawings. The architect will also desire to improve his plans when he has become better acquainted with the requirements through discussing them with members of the building committee. In fact, the man who would not under ordinary circumstances alter and improve his competition drawings, would not reflect much credit on himself or on his profession, even though he had won the competition.

Under the above circumstances it has become usual only to ask for such number of drawings as are absolutely necessary to interpret the author's scheme. The drawings are not expected to be elaborately finished nor absolutely accurate, so long as they faithfully explain a feasible scheme. The <assoc>Hamilton Free Library Building Committee </assoc>ask for no less than nine drawings, and a drawing showing then system of heating and ventilation— in all, ten sheets of drawings. The Committee also very kindly gives a competitor permission to furnish any number of 1/2 inch scale drawings provided he is still anxious for more work. Now five or six sheets of drawings would have been ample and have served every purpose. The building can not be an intricate one in plan nor elaborate in finish, and can be easily illustrated by few drawings. An explanation of any points not shown on plans, and a description of the materials proposed to be used should always accompany a set of competition drawings, so we will not object to the same information being called for under the term "Descriptive Specifications." We do most decidedly object to the competitor being asked to furnish quantities. In the first place, they are of no service whatever, and even if they were, they are almost always so inaccurate that no reliance can be placed in them. The dishonest competitor makes his quantities agree with the sum to be expended. The Committee, if they wish such information, should employ an honest and competent man to take out the quantities of such plans as they may approve.

There is no object in asking that the system of heating and ventilation should be worked out. It is not at all likely that the Building Committee will select a bad design because the author has shown a very perfect system of heating and ventilation, or reject a good plan because the author has not troubled himself about the heating and ventilation, or has not shown a system which meets with the approval of the committee. A building after a good design can surely be as well heated and ventilated as one after a bad one. We do not underestimate the importance of good heating and ventilation, but no one with any common sense would for one instant think of erecting a building to serve as a screen or protection to an elaborate system of heating or ventilation. It would also appear from the conditions that the Building Committee have before them a plan which meets with their approval. The size of the building, inside dimensions are

given, as also the height of the stories. There is also something to the effect that, "The front 70 feet, to be two storeys:

and the rear 45 feet, one storey." These details would not be given if the Committee had not before them some plan on which they are working. They certainly hamper a competitor most seriously, as he will be obliged to waste much time in trying to discover the key to the above arrangement. We should also like to have the Committee explain how they expect to secure 7,460 square feet of floor surface within a space of 7,475 square feet after deducting the area of all internal walls, lost space, and an allowance for corridors, stairs, etc., over and above what they have allowed. The value of building material and labor in Hamilton must be only one half what they are in other places, if the sum of $20,000 is sufficient for the erection of the building. On the dimensions given, the building will cube about 400,000 cubic feet, which at cents per cubic foot would give $20,000, the proposed cost of the building. We believe that we are well within the mark when we state that 10 cents per cubic foot will no more than cover the cost of such a building, and then there will be nothing spent on ornamentation. We cannot understand why building committees will persist in asking architects to make designs for buildings which from their very size must cost from 50 to 200 per cent. more than the amount they state, and then abuse them because they are unable to accomplish the impossible task. The time for properly studying the problem, and making the drawings, is not sufficient. The allowance should have been at least one month, as no architect would care to devote his whole time to the preparation of a competition design without he had "the inside track and a sure thing."

Another, and possibly the most serious objection is, that there is no guarantee that an expert will be employed to advise the Committee in the selection of the best plan. The Committee may consider themselves, capable of judging of the merits of the plans submitted, but no first-class architect will agree with them. The more capable the architect is, the more he is averse to have the merit of his work decided by men not possessed of the necessary knowledge. An inferior architect does not object to the decision of a committee, because his work is more readily understood by them, and consequently meets with their approval. His elevation will almost to a certainty take the committee's fancy, where a good design would receive from them nothing but ridicule. The inferior architect also has to fear the decision of the competent judge, as there is not nearly the same opportunities of a plan being approved because of some unimportant feature put in to catch the fancy of the ignorant.

It is to be hoped that all the members of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>will decline to send in designs in this competition, without the Building Committee see fit to change them to meet the wishes of those most interested. One would think that if a building committee is really in earnest in their desire to receive the best plans obtainable for a building, they would make the terms of the competition such as would allow of the best men in the profession sending in designs, in stead of drawing them up so that only the second and third rate men in the profession will compete.

The Board of Directors of the Ontario Association of Architects held a meeting on the 2nd inst., and discussed the terms of the proposed competition for the Hamilton Free Library Building.

They unanimously decided to recommend the members of the Association to refrain from sending in designs, for the following reasons

1st. Sufficient time is not allowed for preparing designs.

2nd. Much more detail is required in the preparation of the drawings than is at all necessary to properly illustrate the proposed work.

3rd. Specifications and quantities are unnecessary.

4th. The conditions contain no statement that the Committee will secure professional advice to decide upon the respective merits of the designs.

"A circular has been sent from the office of the secretary of the Ontario Association or Architects which, practically, amounts to mild boycott of the building committee of the Free Library Board. The circular recommends all members of the Association to refrain from sending designs for the library building. The reasons are these: Sufficient time is not allowed for preparing designs; much more detail is required in the preparation of the drawings than is at all necessary to pro-

