<doctype type="text">52	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	May, 1889



<article title="Our Illustrations" author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

PHOTOGRAVURE PLATE—NEW DEPARTMENTAL BUILDINGS,

OTTAWA, ONT.—THOS. FULLER, R.C.A., ARCHITECT,

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA.

SKETCH FOR CITY FRONT—WM. MCCANDLISH RADFORD,

MONTREAL.

SKETCH FOR "GLEN TOWER," ROSEDALE, TORONTO.—R. W.

GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.



<article title="Queries and Answers" author="">QUERIES AND ANSWERS.

(No. 5.)—Is it better to have ventilating shafts run from the ceiling, or the floor line of a room? I insert the following extract from <person>Wightwick</person>'s "Hints to Young Architects," as bearing on the subject, and should like to find out the true method:

"The extraction of foul air at the floor level, is objectionable and unsound in principle; as it is a law of Physics that a gas expands, and ascends when heated, the colder strata of air taking its place, therefore a system which follows this natural order is the best, and the ceiling level is for this reason, the place for the exit of vitiated air. The Carbonic Acid Gas, mixed with the air does not by its greater weight, separate and fall to the lower level, as imagined by many writers, but tends by the law of diffusion of gases, to diffuse itself throughout the room." Thinking that perhaps this may interest some others of your readers, besides myself, I hope to see an answer in your next issue.

A BROCKVILLE STUDENT.



<article title="The Victoria Hospital, Montreal" author="">THE VICTORIA HOSPITAL, MONTREAL



MR. <person>MAXON SNELL</person>, architect of the new <building>Victoria Hospital, Montreal</building>, is at present in Canada, and in a recent interview is reported to have said: "I have had more difficulty in designing the plan for this hospital than any other I ever built. This is accounted for by the peculiarity of the Canadian climate, its intense heat and cold. For instance, hospital buildings in the south of France would in nowise do here. There they are built upon the hut plan, and of course that is the proper plan for all hospitals. But were that plan followed here, it would cost a fortune every winter for fuel alone; for in that system the hospital is scattered over a large tract of land and is only one storey high, and consists of a number of separate buildings. So it will be seen how difficult it would be to build such an hospital as that in Montreal, as each building has to have a separate heating apparatus. It is always difficult to prevent foul air from reaching the upper storeys in hospitals not built on the hut plan, as it always travels by the stairway. I have taken means in my plan of the present hospital to prevent this, by detaching the stair case, and putting on each floor short bridges, so that there will be no staircase for it to ascend. I intend to press for the erection of one or two detached buildings  for the purely infectious cases. This of course will be costly, but I consider it worth the expense. When completed there will not be another hospital in the world built on the same design as the Victoria." 



<article title="Correspondence" author=" Burroughes, W. J.">EDITOR CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—In the issue of the Metal Worker of March 23rd, is shown a set of plans and specifications for a system of hot water heating and ventilation by <person>Richard Swallwell</person>, of Winnipeg, Manitoba. This gentleman was awarded the first prize. in the competition offered by that enterprising journal, which deserves the highest praise for its endeavors to advance the science of warming and ventilating.

Now, while I give Mr. Swallwell credit for his perseverence in preparing plans and specifications, and for having obtained first place in the competition, I must object to that part of his essay, where, in describing his system of indirect heating and ventilation, he says: "The idea is original." I claim that it is an exact copy of plans prepared by me, and fitted up in a residence at Calgary, N. W. T., last year. These plans and specifications were forwarded to Winnipeg, and two or more hot water engineers were invited to estimate on the work, and presumably this is where Mr. Swallwell obtained his "original ideas." There is

no difference in the plans as shown in the Metal Worker and those the writer made a year and a half ago, but the specifications may, in the construction of the heating chamber. Where the writer specified that it should be built of brick and lime with bright tin, Mr. Swallwell has constructed of wood and plaster, and takes occasion to say it is better than brick. Perhaps he thinks he scored a point against me in this simple alteration. The only other change is, that I show a damper to control the inflow of cold air to the heating chamber, in the same way as one for the smoke pipe and boiler draft.

Before attempting to reply to the Metal Worker in this matter, I have communicated with the proprietor of the house at Calgary for information as to the success of the system, and am to day in receipt of a letter from that gentleman, in which he speaks in the highest terms of the system after having had it in use all winter. H also says: "The Winnipeg men had never done such work before and were very skeptical as to its utility. And yet in the face of this, Mr. Swallwell tells us that it has been his practice to adopt this system.

This is another case in competitions where honor does not always fall where honor is due.

Yours truly)

W. J. BURROUGHES,

315 Queen street west,' Toronto.



<article title="Ontario Association of Architects" author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

A

 MEETING of the Board of Directors of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has been called for the 19th of June, to discuss and arrange for the first annual meeting. It is proposed to have a number of papers on professional subjects read at the meeting, and the Directors intend to make the necessary arrangements in June. It would be of' great assistance to the Board if each member of the Association would send in to the Secretary the name of any subject which they would like to have discussed at the annual meeting. The Board of Directors would also like to receive offers to prepare and read papers on matters of general interest to the profession. Every member can render assistance, be it much or little, and they certainly should do so. If they do not wish to prepare a paper, they can at least suggest the subject matter for one, and thus insure that the papers will all be on matters of common interest. The Board of Directors would also like to receive suggestions from the individual members as to any matter that should receive their attention.



<article title="Toronto Architectural Guild" author="">TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL GUILD.

<assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL GUILD</assoc>

THE

 meetings of the Architectural Guild of Toronto, have taken place regularly every month and have been very well attended. The interest of the members in the meetings is very great, and shows a continual growth. Now that the Ontario Association of Architects bas been formed, the Guild can safely allow that Association to take charge of matters which it before was in duty bound to assume. The Guild, after paying all the expenses of the movement to establish the Ontario Association, has a large surplus which it hopes to use in the improvement of architectural design, etc. The membership is now twenty-six, but it is to be regretted that some four or five of them are what might be called "sleeping members."

At the last meeting new rules were adopted to govern the election of new members which it is hoped will prove 'satisfactory in all respects.

A committee of the Guild has under consideration the cause of the too prevalent efflorescence on brick work. An interesting report is expected, stating what are the local causes, and making suggestions for its amelioration, if not prevention. The committee was empowered to obtain such expert assistance as it might consider advisable.

The meetings during the warmer months will be held in the afternoon at the different summer resorts in or about the city. Those meetings which were held at Lorne Park and Long Branch last summer, were so much enjoyed by the' members, that there is no doubt but that there will be a very full attendance this season.

