<doctype type="text;colophon">VOL. 11.—No V.	TORONTO, CANADA, MAY, 1889.	PRICE 20 CENTS

		$2.00 Per Year.



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

31 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



SUBSCRIPTIONS 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT and Builder will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50 Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, If so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, sad changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the mouth.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.





AS we go to press we learn that the Committee having in hand the competition for the proposed new <building>Public Library Building in Hamilton</building>, have made certain concessions in terms in deference to the wishes of the architects.



W

E understand that the completion of the late Mr<person>. Lionel

Yorke</person>'s contract in connection with the erection of the

new <building>Parliament Buildings in Toronto </building>will be assumed by

Messrs. <firm>Carrol, Gaylord & Vick</firm>, of Toronto.



W

E find the demands of advertisers upon our space so great, that in justice to our readers we have been compelled to add four pages to the size of the present number. We have still abundance of room for enlargement, and therefore continue to invite contributions to both our reading and advertising pages. __________________





T

HE value of industrial exhibitions as a means of education for mechanics, has so impressed itself on English people, that in London, Manchester and other cities, money is being publicly subscribed for the purpose of sending representative bodies of workingmen to the Paris exhibition. The American labor organizations are being advised to follow English example.



THE authorities, of the <assoc>American Association for the Advancement of Science </assoc>will convene in the city of Toronto, on the 27th August next, to remain in session one week. This gathering of probably a thousand prominent scientific men will prove an interesting event for all who desire the diffusion of systematized knowledge, and its outcome cannot fail to be of benefit to the whole province. The discussion of scientific subjects, the interchange of experience, and the application of its results, must stimulate the material as well as the intellectual progress of the country.





THE Toronto City Council seeks to save the expense of an additional inspector of plumbing by transferring part of the duties of the present inspectors to the drain inspectors. This is at best but a temporary expedient. There was ample work for an additional plumbing Inspector before the annexation of Parkdale to the city. With the recent addition of seven or eight thousand to the city's population, and the consequent extension of area, it is idle to hope that the inspection provided for under the Plumbing By-law, can be efficiently performed by two inspectors. The public health is so largely dependent upon the condition of the plumbing in city houses, that no attempt should be made to economize at the expense of the efficiency of the inspection service. We trust that the Toronto City Council will see the wisdom as well as the necessity of appointing at least one additional inspector of plumbing.



The vote of the people on the 18th inst., will decide



 whether or not the erection of the new Toronto Municipal Buildings shall be proceeded with in accordance with the architect's design. We repeat what we have before stated on this subject. The city is sadly in need of a new city hail and court house. The present and future importance of the city demands that the buildings erected for the purpose should not be of the cheap and shabby variety, but of a durable and beautiful character. The County of York can compel the city to erect a new Court House, and great advantages may be obtained by erecting a combined building. The site has been purchased and considerable money expended in bringing the scheme to its present position, The only thing now lacking is the additional $600,000 necessary to complete the buildings. We trust the people will vote the money, and that the undertaking will go on to successful completion without further delay.





W

E are pleased to observe the liberality of the Toronto City Council in the direction of increasing the park area of the city, as well as improving the present parks. A respectable appropriation appears in the present year's estimates for this object. What Toronto in company with every large city. requires, is a number of small parks scattered throughout the thickly populated districts. Toronto is very deficient in respects of such parks, and steps have been taken none too soon to provide them. The proposal to purchase the Knox College property, remove the building and utilize the site as a park, is one which we hope to see carried out. The Presbyterian authorities admit that the present college building and grounds are too small, and that it would be well, to sell the property and rebuild elsewhere. It is apparent to every observant mind that Toronto is destined to be a city of great magnitude. It therefore becomes those who compose the municipal Government to take a comprehensive view of the future, and make wise provision for its requirements.

