<doctype type="text">	64	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	June, 1889



equipment and running of a new line of street railway, but up to the present time have been unable to receive any offers outside of the city, and as these have not been considered satisfactory, the matter remains in abeyance, to the great detriment of the city.



<article title="Correspondence - Hamilton" author="">HAMILTON



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

THE building prospects in this city for the season are fairly good, although it must be said that so far there has not been as much work contracted for as was expected. However, the season is not far advanced yet, and as there is now perfect harmony among the building fraternity, it is reasonable to expect that a fair record can be shown at the close of the season.

Mr. Landers from Toronto, is entering largely into speculative building here and has already completed a number of very fine detached brick residences in the east end of the city.

The City Hall is fast approaching completion.

The contract for the <building>Young Men's Christian Association building </building>on James Street south, is let to <person>Isaih Berr</person>, who wilt push on the work with his accustomed energy.

After all the excitement about the choice of a site for the new library building it is now to be built on James Street south, next the new Y. M. C. A. building.

There is to be a new <building>Presbyterian Church, Hamilton </building>erected on the corner of King and Emerald streets, for which competition plans will be invited.

In the matter of architects competition plans on committee invitation, much has to be considered. If the committee desire to avail themselves of a large field of design to select from, prepared by duly qualified architects, they certainly must give the assurance that there will be none of the prejudice or favor shown that has heretofore marred such competitions, and their premium for the 2nd and 3rd designs must be sufficient to induce competitors to devote the required time and attention 10 prepare their designs, otherwise only those having influence at court will deem it worth their time to enter the arena.



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



MONTREAL SEWERS —CONTRACT VS. DAY WORK.



 WHETHER our sewers should be constructed by public tender, or

done under the Road Department by day's work, has been of late

a very vexed question both with the Road Committee and the Montreal

contractors.

It has been decided by the Road Committee and Council, reconsidered by that body, and again carried in favor of "day's work," much to the disgust of the contractors.

To our mind, the question is one in which every property-owner is deeply interested, especially when we hear one of our "city fathers" say that 75

or 8o per cent. of the sewers constructed under contract are defective.' Such a state of things should not exist (if it does) no matter whether the work was done by contract or by days work. The responsible parties, whoever they may be, should be called upon to render an account of their stewardship.

The sewers are supposed to be constructed by or under the supervision of the Road Department. Our City Surveyor, who is considered a competent one, should be made responsible to the Council for all work done under his department. He has under him a Deputy City Surveyor and Assistant Engineer and some five or six subordinates, and in addition, an Inspector, paid by the city, is supposed to be daily on the works to see their orders carried out to the letter of the specification. If the specifications are honestly carried out we have no cause for complaint; if this is not done, then certainly some one is at fault, and it would he apropos of the Council to sift the matter to the bottom and discover if any of our sewers are faulty in construction and let us know who the guilty parties are, in order that a remedy may be applied. We will point out in your next issue where in our opinion the defect is, and how it can be remedied.

Looking at the question from a financial point of view, while we would not favor all departmental work being carried out by contract, yet we consider that under ordinary circumstances our sewers can he constructed cheaper and equally as good by contract as by day's work. If so, the people called upon to pay for sewers are justly entitled to this benefit.

It would be interesting to engineers, contractors and the public generally, to have a comparative statement of the cost of sewers actually constructed by day's work and those constructed by contract. No doubt such will he forthcoming ere the present season closes, when we shall endeavor to furnish your readers with a copy.

MONTREAL's GAS.

Citizens generally are complaining that their gas bills, instead of decreasing with the reduced price of gas, the most improved appliances and other latest additions to their staff, are still rapidly increasing.

We all expected that when the new Gas Engineer' arrived from England, something would be done to remedy the numerous complaints. There is, however, no noticeable improvement in the gas, and did we not see it in the press, we would not know that the Company had added to their staff a

"Gas Engineer." Some consumers explain the increased gas bills as being

necessary to pay the extra expense incurred in employing this new official. At all events, our gas bills are no smaller now than they were when gas was half a dollar per thousand feet more:

The gas light flickers dim and low

And meagre is the flame,

But the meter with its measured click

Wilt get there just the same.

CITY HALL NOTES,

The city corporation have begun the paving of Craig street with wooden blocks, much to the satisfaction of those owning property and doing business on this important thoroughfare.

A regulation is expected shortly in favor of broad tires for heavy carts,



WATER SUPERINTENDENT

Mr. <person>B. D. McConnell</person>, late Assistant Superintendent, has, after considerable wrangling in the Council, been elected to fill the position of Superintendent, rendered vacant by the death of <person>Louis Lesage</person>.

The new Superintendent has been Deputy Superintendent for the past twelve years, and it is considered that the Council have acted wisely and in the best interests of the city by promoting him to the position of Superintendent,

Some six applications for the position of Assistant Superintendent have been received, amongst them one from Mr. <person>T. Lesage</person>, son of the late Superintendent. We understand that all the candidates are not Civil Engineers, some being only Mechanical Engineers. It is to be hoped the Council will take this question into consideration and appoint only a qualified Civil Engineer to assist the Superintendent, as a Mechanical Engineer would be of little or no expertise in preparing the plans and surveys required by this department for the amelioration of the water works, and as the Superintendent's own time will be fully taken up with more important matters connected with his department, he could not be expected to do the surveying and other field work himself; therefore lie should by all means be given a qualified assistant.

HARBOR IMPROVEMENTS.

'The plan prepared by Messrs. <firm>Kennedy & St. George</firm>, Harbor and City Engineers respectively, better known as plan "number 6" has now been approved of, and the means for carrying it into effect will very shortly be decided upon.

BUILDING NOTES.



While the building business is not quite so brisk as it was this time last year, yet most of the offices are kept as busy as ever. There is every probability that before the close of the year there will be as many private houses erected this year as last, although the total expenditure can hardly be expected to reach as much as last year, when the New York Life and Imperial Insurance Companies' buildings, and the Canadian Pacific and Grand Trunk Railway depots were under construction.

During the month of April, sixty-four permits have been issued from the Building inspector's office for houses, varying from $I,600 to $13,000. The principal buildings now in course of construction are a block of houses for Sir <person>Donald A. Smith</person>, the new lighting station for the <firm>Royal Electric Company </firm>on Water street, a branch of the Bank of Montreal on St. Catherine street, a residence for R, G. Reed, contractor, Drummond street, a store and two dwellings, for <person>H. F. Jackson</person>, chemist, on St. Catherine street, a manse for <building>St. Paul's Church</building>, Dorchester street, a block of flats for <person>R. Fisher </person>on Sherbrooke street, something after the New York style, a manse for the <building>Methodist Church </building>on Sherhrooke street, <building>Royal Insurance building </building>on Notre Dame street, a racket court on Concord street, five houses on Manse street, and four houses on St. Matthew street.

Preparations for the widening of St. Lawrence Main Street have commenced, and already several of the buildings have been demolished, and the owners are making arrangements for the construction of substantial and handsome stores on their new lines. This will make St. Lawrence Main Street one of the finest business streets of the city.

FAULTY CONSTRUCTION.



The large new brick building on St. James Street West, recently erected for Messrs. Roland Bros. at a cost of some $25,000, has just been condemned by the Building Inspector as being unsafe and dangerous and is now being demolished. The building was just about completed and ready for occupation, when the defects were noticed. We understand an amicable arrangement has been arrived at between the contractors and owners by which the contractors are to rebuild same on the condition that the owners do not claim damages from contractors.

REAL ESTATE.

During the month of April there were some two hundred and fifteen real estate transfers in the city wards, and Cote St. Antoine, amounting to $731,393. 52 for which St. Antoine Yard alone contributed $246,527.70,

Real estate generally is in good demand and one finds great difficulty in getting a choice lot in a good locality at any price.





The old-established hardware firm of <firm>Rice, Lewis & Son, Toronto</firm>, has I been incorporated.

A Belgian firm who propose to engage in the manufacture of iron water pipes at Three Rivers, Que., have been granted by the municipality a bonus of $20,000, fifteen acres of land, and exemption from taxation. A large number of hands will be employed.

