

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Important Judicial Decision on a Mechanics' Lien" author="">IMPORTANT JUDICIAL DECISION ON A MECHANICS' LIEN.

BELOW will be found a judgment by the honorable Mr. Justice Rose delivered 27th April, 1889, while holding the Toronto Assizes. As

		will be seen this was an action by a sub-contractor who had delivered lumber for building some houses, to a contractor.

The whole amount of the contract was $4, 775 but when the contractor had done work to the extent of $2,300 he gave up the job and the owner had to take the work off his hands, and when the house was completed the owner had expended the full amount of the first contract price, viz. $4,775 and $90 in addition.

The plaintiffs claim that they were entitled to ten per cent. of the $2,300, notwithstanding the fact that the owner had paid more than the original contract price to finish the houses. The Judge, after some considerable care which he had given to the case, decided, but not without some hesitancy, to dismiss the action with costs, and therefore the sub-contractor did not succeed in his action.

65

JUDGMENT.—" This is an action by mechanic lien-holders who had supplied material to a contractor doing work on the lands of the defendant for the amount of their claim, or at any rate for 10 per cent, of the amount of the work done by the contractor. The original contract was for $4,775. The contractor, after doing work to the extent of about $2,300 refused to go on with the work. Thereupon the owner of the premises employed another to finish the work, and the work was completed at an expense of some $90 in excess of the original contract price. The question for consideration and determination, is whether or not the owner of the land was bound to retain 10 per cent, of the value of the work done from time to time, thus making payments only up to 90 per cent, of the price to be paid for such work, Or whether he was only bound to retain 10 per cent, of the price to be paid for the work as per the contract, on the supposition that the contract would be completed. In other words, does the Mechanics' lien Act contemplate the retention of 10 per cent of the price to be paid for the work as the work progresses, so that if the contract is not completed there will remain in hand from time to time 10 per cent. of the price of the work done, or does it contemplate solely the case of a contract being completed and the prices to be earned under that contract? There are three principles that seem to me to require consideration as exhibited by the Act. The first is, the payments up to 90 per cent, to be paid for the work are protected as long as they are made in good faith. Secondly, the lien is restricted to the amount payable by the owner of the property to the contractor or sub-contractor; and third, that the Statute does not contemplate that the owner of the property shall be required to pay a greater sum than the amount payable by him to the contractor. And if the words, the prices to be paid for the work' in section of the Act mean prices to be paid for the work wider the contract, then I think we have gone a long distance in support of the contention of the defendant. I am met with sonic difficulty by reason of what I think is possibly the direct conflict of authority in the cases of Re Cornish in 6 Ont. 259, a judgment of the Chancery Division, and <person>Godard </person>v <person>Coulson</person>, 10 App. Rept., s. I. Each of these cases may be distinct from the case before us by microscopical examination, but I think the fair reading of the decision In these cases shows they are inconsistent and conflicting. In Re Cornish the court had not before it the argument that the 10 per cent, was only upon the price of the whole contract when the work was done. There were three propositions laid before the court, but they all looked towards thc principle that the owner of the property was bound to retain 10 per cent, of the price of the work. The chief conflict there, was whether the 10 per cent, was to be on the whole contract prices, or whether it was to be on the prices of the work already done. The court held in that case that the contract was divisible, that the part of the price earned by the man who had done the work up to a certain date was one contract price, and that the price earned by the man who was employed to complete the contract was another price, and it was the duty of the owner of the property to retain 10 per cent, upon each of these sums, such 10 per cent, to be available to those who can claim under the Mechancs' Lien Act. In Godard v Coulson, an appeal from the judgment of the County Court, the Judges who gave judgment held that the price to be paid was the price to be paid under the contract that the Statute looked alone to the case of a contract completed and a price earned under that contract; and in the case of the price of the work already done having been paid at the time that the contractor abandoned his work, it was held that there was no further sum coming to him, that such payments made in good faith were protected by sec. 9, and that the person claiming under the Mechanics' Lien Act failed because he was unable to show that the contractor had completed his work and earned his money under the contract. If the principle of Re Cornish had been observed in Godard v Coulson, it would have been held that the 10 per cent, should have been retained with respect to the work already done, and that the plaintiff in that case was entitled to have his judgment for such an amount. I think I must follow the Appellate tribunal, although I am not sure exactly which authority is the binding authority, the one being an appeal from the judgment of the County Court, not to the Court of Appeal as such, but to members the Court of Appeal constituting a Court of Appeal for the hearing of such a decision and the other being a judgment of a court of as many members. It may be that I would be at liberty to express my own opinion, and follow whatever deci-

sion convinces me of its correctness. but I am glad that I am saved from expressing my own opinion in regard to the matter, and prefer to follow the decision of our appellate tribunal, even although it might successfully be argued that decision was no more binding than the decision of the Divisional Court. I think that in this case the contractor having been paid all that he has earned, and although there was a drawback, that drawback having been exceeded in completing the work, and the result having been thus $90 more were expended in completing the work than the contract price, there never was payable to him in respect to the work more than had been paid in good faith. And as he could not have recovered against the owner of the property for any sum in excess of that paid to him, and as if judgment were to go for the plaintiffs in this action the owner of the property would be required to pay a sum greater than that payable by him to the contractor, I shall follow the principle of the decision in Godard v Coulson, 10 Appeal reports, page 1, and dismiss the action.





<article title="Straightening Walls of  Buildings" author="">STRAIGHTENING WALLS OF BUILDINGS.



THE weight of the roof of the large gallery of the <building>Conservatoire de Arts et Metiers </building>pressed the sides outward so as to endanger the building; and it was requisite to find means by which the wall should be propped so as to sustain the roof. <person>M. Molard </person>contrived the following ingenious plan for the purpose. A series of strong iron bars were carried across the building from wall to wall, passing through holes in the walls, and were secured by nuts on the outside. In this state they would have been sufficient to have prevented the further separation of the walls by the weight of the roof, but it was desirable to restore the walls to their original state by drawing them together. This was effected in the following manner Alternate bars were heated by lamps fixed beneath them. They expanded, and consequently the nuts, which were previously in contact with the walls, were no longer so. These nuts were then screwed up so as to be again in close contact with the walls. The lamps were withdrawn, and the bars allowed to cool. In cooling they gradually contracted, and resumed their former dimensions consequently the nuts, pressing against the walls, drew them together through a space equal to that through which they had been screwed up. Meanwhile the intermediate bars were heated and expanded, and the nuts screwed up as before. The lamps being again withdrawn, they contracted in cooling, and the walls were further drawn together. This process was continually repeated, until at length the walls were restored to their perpendicular position. The gallery may still be seen with the bars extending across it and binding together its walls.





<article title="Schoolroom Space" author="">SCHOOLROOM SPACE.



MR. <person>H. COURTHOPE BOWEN</person>, whose opinions on ill matters connected with the proper construction of schoolrooms are entitled to great weight, and are regarded as authority by the leading medical journal of England, expresses somewhat as follows what, in his judgment, should be considered a good schoolroom. Taking the case of a room 14 feet high, fairly ventilated and always well aired in the recess, he should assign two thirds of the floor-space to the scholars and their desks, and keep the other third for the teacher, the blackboard, etc. With single desks, twenty-two inches should be allowed from side to side, and three feet from back to front, for each scholar. The passages need not be more than eighteen inches for those running from back to front, and one foot for those running from side to side. In such arrangement, counting the passages, each scholar has (without reckoning the share of the space allotted to the teacher) a trifle more than forty inches from side to side, and just four feet from back to front. In a room twenty-five feet by twenty feet, the floor-space for scholars' desks will be sixteen feet by twenty feet, with four feet from back to front per row, and accommodation is provided for twenty scholars. The whole floor-space is 500 square feet, and the cubic contents of the room 7,000 cubic feet, with twenty square feet and 280 cubic feet per person.— Science.





<article title="How to Save Cracked Ceilings" author="">HOW TO SAVE CRACKED CEILINGS.



A CORRESPONDENT in the Scientific American gives the following remedy The ceiling must be pressed back firmly into place. To do this, take two pieces of scantling, long enough to reach over the defective part. Place this framework, lath side up, against the ceiling, driving wedges under the floor end of the supporting scantling, which will bring the ceiling in place and keep it there.

To prepare the nails: Put them in a vise. With a hack saw, saw slots in their heads like a screw (only slightly, but so that a sharp screwdriver will hold in the groove), then with the screwdriver turn the nail to the right and then to left, gently pushing it, first through the plastering, then into the lath above, still pushing and gently turning. The head of the nail can be screwed into the plaster flush, so as to make a neat job, and hardly be noticeable on the floor beneath. The nails hold very firmly. Once in every 6, 8, or 10 inches square for a nail is usually sufficient. If the plaster is very porous and shaky, small copper washers may be used on the nails, but it must be very far gone to need them. Driving nails in with a hammer would destroy the whole fabric. Take down your lath framework, and there you have your piece of ceiling as firm and nice as ever it was.

