<doctype type="text;colophon">CANADA, JUNE, 1889	PRICE 20 CENTS

VOL. II.—-NO VI.	TORONTO,	  2.00 per YEAR.



--THE-



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU-

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



J. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

31 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



SUBSCRIPTIONS 



The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.



Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.



Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written terms of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the Canadian Architect  and Builder as  its official paper.





THE unusual amount of rain during the last month had the effect of retarding considerably the progress of building operations, and served to offset to a very large extent the advantages of an early spring.





THE consolidation of the <assoc>American Institute of Architects</assoc>

and the <assoc>Western Association of Architects </assoc>was effected

by a majority of vote of the members on the 20th of May.

A convention of the members of the new organization will



shortly be arranged for.





WE are pleased to notice the promises of improvement which our American contemporaries, the National Builder and Builder's Gazette, are making to their readers. We trust they will include the giving of proper credit for original articles copied from other journals, the CANADIAN ARChiTECT AND BUILDER not excepted.







<person>ARTHUR Wellesley Peel</person>, Speaker of the House of Commons, in welcoming the visiting American engineers at Leamington the other day, said the English people admired the great feats performed by American engineers. Anyone travelling in America was bound to admire the enormous energy, prowess and force that dominated the powers of nature.





NOVA Scotia freestone is said to be in active demand in New York city, and a fleet of vessels is engaged in carrying stone to that city. The Nova Scotia quarries are unusually busy. The short C. P. R. route to Halifax opened for traffic during the past month, should result in the use of larger quantities of this stone in our western Canadian cities.



 The <assoc>Confederation Life Association </assoc>is to be commended for its determinatiom to have its new buildings in Toronto designed and erected by a Canadian architect. We trust the Association will further manifest its patriotism and confidence in Canadian ability by appointing a Canadian as expert to judge the plans in the forthcoming competition.





THE labor agitators in our Eastern cities, whose motto is the greatest amount of remuneration for the least amount of labor, are in danger of being outdone by their more progressive brethren of the Pacific coast. Vancouver, B. C., advices state that the <assoc>Plasterers' Union </assoc>has passed a resolution declaring that eight hours shall constitute a day's work, and $5 the standard of wages per day.





DURING the last few years, the towns throughout Canada have been adopting the electric light and improved methods of water supply. It is a noticeable fact that very many contracts for the construction of water works systems in country towns have been secured by American companies. It looks like lack of enterprise on the part of Canadian contractors to allow this work to be done by foreigners, who certainly should not be able to work to the same advantage as resident contractors.





 THE St. Louis Globe-Democrat makes the alarming statement that lepers have invaded British Columbia, and had such free access to the Indians that the whole race of red men is infected, and adds that the antagonism to Chinese immigration will be more widespread than ever, and will be based on something beside race prejudice. It would be far better to stop quarantining against yellow fever and small-pox, for while the latter kill more quickly, leprosy devours its victims with a living death. If our contemporary is correctly informed, it is high time that the Dminion quarantine authorities should seek to rid the country of such a terrible plague.





REFERRING to the article published in our May number urging some Canadian manufacturing firm to begin the production of the finer class of bronze hardware, the <firm>E. & C. Gurney Co</firm>., of Hamilton, inform us, in a letter published elsewhere, that they are experimenting with that object, and hope shortly to be in a position to supply the desired class of goods. We are pleased indeed to hear that the opening pointed out in our article bids fair to be so soon taken advantage of. The enterprising company who have the undertaking in hand have our best wishes for success. Should they be able to produce a class of fine hardware approaching nearly in quality that hitherto imported, they will be entitled to the fullest support of Canadian architects and builders.



T

HE best remedy for the smoke nuisance which the Local Board of Health of Toronto is calling upon the manufacturers of the city to abate, would probably be the employment by the owners of steam plants of properly qualified men to manage them. One of the manufacturers who was present at the

