<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



this and of the large quantities of slate imported every year from the United States, there seems to be every reasonable prospect of success awaiting the individual or company who shall undertake to operate a second Canadian quarry. Indeed, we learn that such a quarry has been already opened, but owing to the death of the gentleman who intended to develop it, has remained inoperative for four or five years. This quarry is located at Melbourne, Que., on the same vein of slate and in close proximity to the quarry operated by the <firm>Rockland Company</firm>, It was opened some years ago by Mr. <person>Benjamin Walton</person>, of Toronto, who spent a large sum of money upon it, and had almost completed the formation of a company, with ample capital for its further development and operation, when he was suddenly stricken down by illness and died within a fortnight, leaving the enterprise in an uncompleted state, in which it has remained until the present. An expert engaged by Mr. Walton to examine and report upon this quarry, states that the supply of slate which it contains is practically inexhaustible, and that in addition, the thirteen hundred acres of land comprising the property is rich in asbestos and minerals. The quarrying machinery with which Mr. Walton intended to operate the quarry is still on the ground, together with a number of workmen's cottages. We are given to understand that the executors of the Walton estate, not being in a position to operate the quarry themselves, would dispose of it at a low figure, and that a company with twenty or twenty- five thousand dollars capital and the necessary knowledge of the business would find in it a profitable field for their money and energy. The shipping facilities are of the best, a branch of the <firm>Grand Trunk Railway </firm>running into the premises. In view of what has already been stated, we certainly think that such an opening for business enterprise is by no means frequent in this country, and should early he taken advantage of.





<article title="How to Estimate" author="Cato">HOW TO ESTIMATE.

"CATO."



There are few Canadian builders in the habit of submitting tenders for  work and materials, who have not frequently been surprised at the difference in the sums total of all those sent in, and at a loss to account for

it.	Enquiry into this has developed that it can be attributed to various causes, which cannot be enumerated here, but are responsible for the difference in bids. They regulate to a certain extent the way in which the estimator figures on each detail, that is, if be go through the arithmetical operation correctly, which is not always done, for there are many no doubt who, on reading this article, will remember a loss or perhaps lucky gain through an error of this kind, or through pricing approximately.

However, should each competitor calculate each separate item correctly, then the discrepancy is likely due to the facilities which one or the other possesses or is lacking in, giving an advantage or incurring extra expense, as the case may be. For instance. supposing several builders are invited to tender for the labor and materials necessary to construct a given building, each should individually make a thorough examination of the plans and specifications, to become perfectly acquainted with their conditions and requirements before making out the bill of materials. When satisfied that the whole details are understood, the bill of material is made out, commencing at the staking Out and excavation, including all necessary plant (if any should be required for same) and labor and proceeding methodically with each detail in its order to the end of the specifications.

Inexperienced estimators do this in a general way. and often omit many small details which, though apparently trivial, add to and are a factor in the entire cost. Some allow a margin for contingencies to cover these, but it is better to calculate their true price and put it in the estimate so that their real cost may be at any time found after completion, and for future reference. Experienced builders have, of course, experience to guide them in matters of this kind, and will act up to it.

When the bill is made out, before affixing prices to each item, the builder ought to carefully examine his stock, resources, and facilities of working, in order that be may utilize all to the best advantage, to determine what in stock he can employ, and what must be obtained; to enquire in to supernumeraries as digger, painter, plumber etc.) prices, and to systematically make all provision that in case the contract be awarded him the work can be pushed ahead rapidly and economically. lie should also be of sufficient business capacity to buy all materials profitably.

To the difference in resources. etc., the difference in bids may be often attributed, for it is rarely two bidders possess the same. One may be the possessor of a fully equipped mill of machinery, while his competitor must go to another's mill for stuff and pay the millman's profit. Another can buy for cash, saving discount, or on better terms than his rival. The next can work his men to better advantage or on better terms than his rival, and

so on as the conditions vary, but one thing is necessary to all, that is, to know how to estimate on established rules. It is to enable all interested in this important factor in building that the following is submitted

EXCAVATION.

As stated in the Canadian Contractor's hand-Book, builders find the cost of excavating or digging out cellars and for foundations at a given convenient quantity, namely, the cubic yard, one of which composed of common earth is termed a load. The common practice, when it is required to find the exact amount which must be removed to form any cellar, is to calculate by the cubic yard price per same. If the ground lie level or nearly so. and the building a simple rectangle in plan, the easy process on page 91 of the

Hand Book ' need only be worked out

The rule is Multiply one side by itself for a square, or one side and end together for a rectangle and the result by the intended depth. 'Ibis will give the result its cubic feet, which most be divided by 27 to obtain cubic yards, thus

30 X 20 X 9=5.400 cubic feet.

5.400 :- 27=2 0 cubic yards.

which in its turn must be multiplied by the current price, say 25 cts. 200 X 25 - $50-- whole cost of digging out. placing adjacent to yet clear of building. Prices vary for the different materials to lie excavated for instance, vegetable earth will cost less per yard, gravel more than clay, while rock, which will require a large expenditure of time will cost four times as much.



<article title="Correspondence - Owen Sound" author="">OWEN SOUND



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

 Plans

 are now prepared for the proposed alterations and additions to the <building>town hall, Owen Sound</building>here. There will lie a gallery with a seating capacity of 325, and body of ball will seat 450. Precineum arch will be 30 feet wide by 18 feet high. Stage will lie 32 feet deep from curtain line, and will have four large dressing rooms The building will have four exits—two for general rise and two in case of fire and will cost about $7 000.

Plans are under way for a Sunday School addition to <building>St. George's Church</building>, size 75 x 35 feet, grey limestone, rock faced, slate roof, etc. Cost about $4,000.



<building>Ward school</building>, 6 rooms brick, with stone trimmings cost about $6,ooo

pair oh semi detached dwellings 2 story, brick, 8 rooms and bath, <person>R. E. Todd</person>, owner; additions to residence of <person>A. E. L. Malone </person>cost about $1,100. Several small dwellings costing about $1,200 to $1,500 have been let within the month, but work has been kept back owing to the want of brick.

<firm>The Poison Co</firm>. are now laying the keel of the new steel barge for the <firm>Parry Sound Lumber Co</firm>., arid will soon commence laying keel for the new ferry for Windsor. Work on the steamship Manitoba lately launched by this Co., is being pushed rapidly forward.



<article title="Correspondence - Ottawa" author="">OTTAWA 

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER)

 The

 readers of your journal must have been pleased with the enlarged appearance and corresponding amount of interesting reading matter in the last issue. With proper encouragement there is no reason why the journal should not before long equal any of the architectural publications in the United States.

The contractors of this city held a meeting a few weeks ago, with the object of forming a Contractors' Association. A committee was appointed to draft by-laws and a constitution for the government of the same. Another general meeting is called for to-night, when it is expected the Association will be formed and be election of officers take place. The contractors have come to lie conclusion that the time has arrived to form such alt Association for their own protection, arid we wish them every success in their undertaking.

The Architects Association meet regularly and I understand base lately been engaged in drafting so uniform contract in lie adopted by the Association in all building operations.

The City Council propose erecting a new fire station in Dalhousie ward Architect Bowes has called for tenders for the same.

The building by-law which has been before the Council for several months has not beets taken up lately, and the general belief is that it will fall through, although it has cost the city several thousand dollars to get it into its present shape. Until the by-law is adopted, it will be impossible to give a correct report of building operations, as no record is kept in the city hall.

The <assoc>master plumbers </assoc>have drawn up a by-law governing the plumbing in the city, and have submitted it to a committee of the City Council hut so far very little has been done with it. The Secretary of the Architects' Association has addressed a letter to the City Clerk, requesting that the Plumbers' By-Law, and all other matters in which the architects and builders are interested, should be submitted to the Association before being adopted. This is one of the advantages to be gained by the architects being united. In many ways their Association can exert an advantageous influence over hue future growth of the city.

Building operations have been greatly retarded by the constant rain the past month. In outside work not more than ten days have been made the past three weeks,



The corporation have advertised In several papers for the building,

