<doctype type="text">JUNE 1889

NOW that the question of putting all electric wires underground is being agitated in Toronto and other Canadian cities, it is well to look into the matter carefully, and ask 1st. What is the cause of the agitation on the subject? 2nd. Is it possible to work all electric wires underground successfully? 3rd. Is it possible to attain the end sought by any other method than by burying the wires?



It is hardly necessary to discuss the first question at any great length, as it is now quite generally known that overhead electric light wires of any description are believed by the general public to be a source of imminent danger to life and property, and as far as telephone, telegraph, fire alarm, and other low tension wires are concerned, they, and the poles that carry them, are simply looked upon as a disfigurement to the streets, and hence the removal and burial of all electric wires is being demanded by civic authorities.



As regards the second question, it has been demonstrated by practical experience that it is quite practicable to work telegraph, telephone, fire alarm, and other low tension wires underground successfully, and in order to demonstrate this fact, we have only to look at the experience of New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Boston, Detroit, Buffalo, London, England, and others of the larger cities, the authorities of all of which unanimously agree that the question of placing of such wires underground has now been practically solved, and that outside of the expense and the inconvenience caused by the opening up of the streets, there is no reason why overhead wires and poles of this description should not be immediately removed. In regard to wires carrying low tension currents for incandescent lighting, it has been found that they will work fully as well underground as overhead, provided that the very best of insulation is used, and that the details of the work are carefully carried out under the direct supervision of a skilled expert. There is, however, at least one difficulty to be surmounted in the burial of incandescent electric light wires, and that is the question of house to house or general distribution of the current from the main conduit or leads. This is generally accomplished by branching of wires from the manholes in the streets to the subscriber's premises, necessitating the frequent tearing up of the pavements and a portion of the streets, which is of itself fully as great, if not a greater source of danger and inconvenience than an ordinary pole line. In regard to wires carrying high tension currents of 1000 volts or more for arc lighting, and for the alternating system of incandescent lighting, although there are many places where such wires are at present working underground, still the expense of keeping them in proper working order is found to be such that the companies operating them have either to double their rates or else withdraw from the business altogether. It is true that the civic authorities in New York city are at present forcing all the companies to bury their wires, but what is the result? Gas explosions in the conduits are of frequent occurrence, workmen are instantly killed while working in the man-holes, and the lighting service generally is poor and unreliable.



Now let us consider the third question. With regard to the telephone wires, their number is increasing so rapidly and their underground working has proved so successful, that there is little doubt but that they will all have to go underground ultimately. Almost the same may be said of telegraph, fire alarm, and low tension electric light wires, but when it comes to the high tension arc light wires the case is entirely different, and the companies operating arc lights and alternating system incandescent lights, have certainly excellent reasons for fighting the movement to compel them to bury their wires. If these companies were to adopt the underground system in the Canadian cities (where high tension stations are operated on a much closer margin of profit than in the American cities where the

field is larger), they would be compelled to at least double their rates, and the question here arises as to whether the ends gained by burying the wires are not more than off-set by the consequent increase in rates and unreliable service rendered, It is not our purpose here to go into details in order to show why the higher tension wires do not work successfully underground, as the reasons are only too well known to the electrical fraternity, but we wish to draw the attention of the authorities of Canadian cities to the fact, that it is perfectly feasible for electric light companies to build pole lines in such a manner that they would be an ornament instead of an eyesore to the streets, and at the same time the danger from accidents would be entirely removed. It does not seem to be recognized by the general public that the liability to accidents from high tension electric light wires is almost entirely due to the fact that the insulation of the wires in general use in Canada is not waterproof, the consequence being that in moist or rainy weather the wires are almost as dangerous as if they were bare, and if a telephone wire (or any other conductor in connection with the earth) comes in contact with them, the deadly current is diverted from its proper course and in all probability will deal death to some unsuspecting individual before the trouble is discovered and removed. Now, there is no necessity whatever for the existence of this state of affairs, as there are any number of makes of wire on the market at present provided with insulated covering that, besides being absolutely water-proof, is so tough and durable that it will stand abrasion for years without cutting through to the wire. It is easily seen that even if wires of this description were to come in contact with other wires, the current would not be diverted from its course, and consequently no harm could possibly result. Of course, in order to build a neat and safe pole line, it is necessary to use nothing but the very best of material, but as the cost of these is but a trifle compared with the expense of burying the wires it will be found that electric light companies generally would willingly rebuild their pole lines to the satisfaction of the civic expert, if offered this as an alternative to placing their wires underground. These being the actual facts of the case, we contend that by far the wisest course for civic authorities who are dissatisfied with the overhead wires, would be to compel the burial of all low tension wires within a reasonable time, and at the same time compel the companies operating high tension wires to rebuild their overhead lines in a safe and sightly manner, and to allow these companies to operate their overhead lines until such time as some perfectly practical method is discovered for working high tension wires underground as successfully as low tension.



Let us now glance at the results of such a policy and we finds that the mass of telephone and telegraph wires (which form by far the largest portion of the overhead system) have entirely disappeared, and in their place we see nothing but a single line of straight neatly painted poles bearing a small number of properly insulated high tension wires securely attached to their supports in such a manner that it impossible for one of them to fall, which indeed would now make little difference, as the insulation is calculated to stand abrasion and handling; and besides, there are now no other wires above ground to get crossed with the high tension. At first glance it may seem absurd to seemingly highly favor the high tension companies, but when we consider the many sweeping objections to the burial of their wires, we cannot but feel that for the present at least, it is to the public interest that all high tension wires of 1000 volts or over should remain above ground, subject to the restrictions enumerated above.—ELEETRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MILLING

NEWS.





The by-law to raise $6,000 for the purchase of an electric light plant for the town of Seaforth has been carried.

We are fearful lest the work of temperance reform at London, Ont., should be off-set by the statement that dogs are allowed to swim in the city reservoir.

The condition of the dairies from which milk is supplied to the citizens of Vancouver, B. C., is said to be such as should lead to the appointment of a sanitary inspector.

