<doctype type="text">Decoration and Furniture

<article title="Harmony of Color in Nature" author="">HARMONY OF COLOR IN NATURE.



NATURE is very sparing of showy contrasts of warm and cold colors. Red and blue are very rare, and of yellow and blue the cases are but few, and black and blue are found in lepidoptera more often than white and blue are seen in our flora or fauna. It is not uncommon for one of two strong colors to be overcast with a tinge of its fellow, or for both of them to be reconciled by a common touch of black or of some third color, or for one of them to be lightened by a dash of white, while the other is lowered by as much black, and so red, off-hued with black—russet and green up-brightened with white—often meet in the autumn in dead and dying patches of fading leaves. It may be shown, I believe, by the refraction of light in chrystalized gypsum that brown is the true complimentary color to lavender gray; and how true to herself is nature we may go forth and see, in the fall of the year, in the dead and curled leaves of the mugwort, or meadow sweet, which are beautiful even in their death, with one side brown and the other the brown matching grey ; and, if brambles be cut in the leaf-greeny season, their two surfaces soon wither in harmony of grey and brown.

And what use are we to make of these hues of nature? They are warrants for a grey mantle under locks of brown hair, or a brown bonnet or trimmings, or a grey room wall with brown furniture ; and if, in a hot summer's day I see the park leaf-shades playing on the grey bark of a young beech, I can boldly lay darkish leaf shades on a wall of the beech bark's hue ; or if, after the winter rains, I find a barkless pole in railings, tinted with the palest blue-grey, and upon breaking off a splinter of it I find its inner wood of the true color pale brown yellow, why should I not take the inner tint for my wall and the outer one for the skirting? Nature is the best school of art, and of schools of art among men, those are the best that are nature's best interpreters.— The Architect



<article title="The Idea in Art" author="">THE IDEA IN ART.



S

PEAKING of the "Idea in Art," J. S. Blackie says:

"The value of the Platonic idea may be shown by an illustration from the region of the beautiful. The marble figure which some stone-working poet has baptized a Corinne or a Sappho, and whose features, expression and attitude combine all that is most dignified in a queen, all that is most simple in a shepherdess, all that is most inspired in a poetic thinker, and all that is most attractive in a Venus—this figure, for the possession of which to adorn their museums, the heads of the great monarchies will contend with rival diplomacy and emulous gold, when dashed to pieces by a sudden precipitation, is only so much lime which the farmer can fling upon his land like straw or dung or any other refuse. Its value is gone as soon as it has lost its form ; the material is common and worthless. Whence, then, is this form, this species, the superaddition of which imparts so much value to an otherwise trivial material? Whence did it come, and what is it? It is plainly neither more nor less than an image impressed by the plastic power of mind on a material utterly destitute of formative force, and the value of the work consists altogether in the amount of this force, or organizing intellectual energy, which has been made to act upon it from without. But this formative force is a thing altogether bloodless and untangible. Shatter the substance of the finest statue in the world to pieces, and the amount of calcine substance or earthly matter of lime remains the same as before the disintegration. It follows, manifestly, that the only real element in the admired object is that which according to common phraseology has no reality in it, viz., the idea in the mind of the artist which has been transferred to stone. This idea is, in fact, the only thing which truly exists so far as the work of art is concerned. It is the only thing also that possesses permanency ; for whereas the marble may be broken at any moment, the idea may at any time be recovered from the intellect of the artist where it was

originally generated, and where it permanently resides. That the ideas which belong to genius or original creative power are innate, in the highest Platonic sense of the word, most people will be willing to concede. For, if not, why cannot every eye see in a daisy as much as a Burns or a Woodsworth saw? Why is not the physiognomy of every dog as eloquent and as pregnant with profound expression to me and to you as it was to Landseer? A common observer 'wants the eye' to see in common objects what the great artist sees—that is to say, he wants an internal plastic and organizing force ; for it is by this mental force only, and not by mere pupils, corneas, retinas, and other apparatus of mere sensuous vision that the man of genius obtains his superior insight.



<article title="Hints on Interior Decoration" author="">HINTS ON INTERIOR DECORATION.



THE occupant of a house called some weeks ago on a master painter to have him look at the dado of his drawing-room, a series of sunk panels in golden brown, which he considered too plain. His idea was—for he had caught hold of a technical phrase—that an "all-over pattern" would be "the thing." The painter at once saw that such a design would conflict with that of the wall space above. He suggested mould-ings in corners and centres, as partaking of the structural character of the dado, and on the impulse of the moment determined to fashion them himself from plaster composition. This done, he directed his foreman to have the pieces put in place, and to be painted in purple, vermilion, orange and red. The owner was satisfied ; he had got additional ornament, and thus without detracting from the effect of the really handsome wall pattern on the space above.

The writer's attention was excited by the remarkable, and yet tasty style, in which a dwelling by no means large had been decorated, illustrating, too, the little difference in cost between the color effect of painting and wall paper. The parlor walls are in oil, a clear French grey. The ceiling is a delicate cream tint, with a large panel in moulding corresponding with the shape of the room. The moulding consists of three members, a bend in the centre and two quirks on each of the outer edges. These are colored in gold, bronze and the panel tint ; this is followed by a broad band of the tint of silver maple edged with deep red, with fine gold lines in ornament ; the styling is two shades deeper than the panel tint, warmed with burnt sienna ; the upper members of the cornice are the same as the moulding of the panel. In this cornice are three coves, the upper one in wood color, same as broad band around the panel, the middle is bronze and gilded, the lower or main cove maroon. The lower moulding of cornice is bronze color, same as found in panel, but a shade deeper, with gilt picture moulding, which divides cornice from wall. The frieze is yellow ochre with greenish-blue stencil ornament in Eastlake style. The walls in oil are a medium shade of Antwerp blue, with small diaper stencil rosettes in gilt. Thus there is a great deal of positive color employed in the decoration, but the whole is so toned down as not to produce any loud effects.



The <assoc>Master Painters' Association </assoc>of the city of Hamilton was organized January, 1887. and has at present a membership of 22.



Red or white oak, stained in imitation of the old oak of England, properly filled and finished in hard oil, gives a richness and, tone to any apartment. It is especially suitable to halls and dining rooms.

For French polish for hardwood doors : 1. Shellac, 3 lbs. ; wood naphtha, 3 pints. 2. Shellac, 2 lbs. ; powdered gum mastic and gum sandarac, 1 ounce each ; copal varnish, 1/2 pint ; spirits of wine, 1 gallon. Mix and shake cold till dissolved.

To obtain a hard, smooth, glossy surface on wooden panels for art decorating purposes, dissolve gum shellac in alcohol, add enough drop ivory to make it thick enough to apply with a brush ; put on three or four coats, rub down with rottenstone ; when dry wipe off with a woolen rag, then varnish with a first-class thin varnish.



Mr. <person>James Morrison</person>, Toronto, has acquired the right for Canada to manufacture the Montgomery sewer gas trap.

