<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ACHITECT AND BUILDER



consultation with the Health Board stated, that in addition to a smoke consuming apparatus his firm employed a skilled engineer. As a result, there were no complaints about the smoke from people residing in proximity to their establishment. A writer on this subject, in an American contemporary, says "It is a fact that a steam generator with properly proportioned grate and heating surfaces and combustion chamber, with all these parts large enough to perform the work without forcing, may be fired continuously and regularly, allowing the fuel to heat gradually and give off its gases slowly, and admitting air in sufficient quantity, and as the fuel heats, forcing it regularly forward on the fire without producing smoke. This process is also the most economical of fuel. The same result in a less degree may be obtained by firing with small charges evenly spread over the fire. On the contrary, a hot fire with a heavy charge of coal thrown directly upon it, evolves so large a quantity of gas that its volume prevents the proper admixture of air and the hot gas thrown against the cooler boiler precipitates its carbon, or in other words, makes smoke; on the other hand, a low fire suddenly forced and charged with fresh fuel, gives off gases at too low a temperature for full combustion and smoke is again produced. The production of smoke by either process means waste of fuel."





WE are pleased to observe the patriotic spirit which prompted certain of the Toronto aldermen to object most strenuously to the giving of the contract for the supply of steel plate pipe required for the extension of the water-works to an American firm. The quantity of pipe required was 6,000 feet of 6o inch, and 4,600 feet of 48 inch. For the former, a Canadian firm sent in figures $900 below those of the American. For the smaller size and quantity the figures of the American firm were the lowest, and the Water works Committee figured out that by giving the whole contract to the American firm they could effect a saving of $572. A majority of the Committee accordingly decided to recommend the Council to adopt this course. AId. Dodds very properly protested against the injustice which such action would entail upon the Canadian tenderers, and pointed out that by giving the contract for 6o inch pipe to the Canadian firm and the contract for the 48 inch pipe to the American company, the saving would amount to $1472 instead of $572, and in addition justice would be done home interests. As the result of these representations and the vigorous defence of the rights of Canadian manufacturers and workmen, the former recommendation of the Committee was referred back for further consideration. We trust that the good example set by the aldermen who thus championed Canadian rights and interests as against those of foreigners, will not be lost upon the community, but will extend to other public bodies as well as private individuals. It should be the duty as well as the privilege of every one calling himself a Canadian to assist in every way possible in the upbuilding of Canadian interests. The country which affords men wealth is entitled to receive the benefit of the expenditure of that wealth.





SINCE the publication of the May number of this journal, the ratepayers of Toronto have voted the additional $600,ooo required to complete the new municipal buildings. In this we believe they have acted wisely. It is a matter for regret, however, that the Court House Committee is seeking to violate one of the most important pledges made to the public when the money by-law was submitted to them, viz., that a commission composed of men in whose ability and integrity the citizens would have confidence would be appointed to supervise the erection of the buildings. It was this distinct pledge, given over the signatures of the Mayor and the chairman of the Court House Committee, which induced many persons to vote for the granting of the money. The action of the Committee in thus breaking faith with the citizens, is dishonorable in the extreme, and especially so in view of the absence of the Mayor, who is at present in Europe. It is due to the chairman of the Committee to say that he is doing everything in his power to secure the carrying out of the promise made to the citizens. The construction of a building of such a costly and important character,

requiring a number of years for its erection, cannot safely be left in the hands of a committee of aldermen, the membership of which is apt to change with every yearly election. The salaries of three competent commissioners for a period of five years should not exceed the sum of thirty or thirty-five thousand dollars. We have no hesitation in saying that many times this amount would be saved to the citizens by a wisely selected commission. Should a committee of the Council be allowed to superintend the work, we may look forward to a period of delays and expensive bungling such as has marked the history of undertakings of this kind in some American cities. The citizens will be justified in taking legal steps if necessary to forbid the commencement of the work until such time as a commission shall have been appointed to superintend the same.





THE question of the relative merits of various methods and materials for paving our city streets, which is at present occupying considerable attention, is one of very great importance, In the city of Toronto an effort has been made to prove that asphalt paving does not give satisfactory results. The weight of evidence appears, however, to be in opposition to this view. Asphalt is in use to a very large extent in London and other English cities, and is giving good satisfaction, as shown by the following extract from a paper read recently by Mr. <person>Geo.rge R. Strachan</person>, Assoc. M I. C. E., Eng., before the <assoc>Society of Engineers </assoc>at Westminster "The true principle of road construction was to make the foundation the real road, and the material thereon a wearing surface only. Its use secured economy in construction and maintenance. Roads should be made to suit the vehicle using them, and not the vehicles to suit the road. A concrete foundation six inches thick would carry 600 tons per day without deterioration. It should he constructed carefully, accurately and scientifically, for it is the actual road. Asphalt as a wearing surface was the best in use to-day, as it possessed the advantages of durability, cleanliness, economy and healthiness, which outweighed its slipperiness. When laid 2 1/4 inches thick it gives a life of fifteen years in Cheapside, at a cost of 13s. per square yard. The first cost of such a road 36 feet wide equaled £12,788 per mile, and the average annual cost for repairs equaled £528 per mile. The asphalt could be renewed at half the original cost, and a life of fifteen years was again before it." Jarvis street, Toronto, is to be paved with asphalt at a cost of $2.80 per square yard, the company doing the work guaranteeing to keep the same in repair for five years. Taking into account this guarantee, the length of time which asphalt will wear, the possibility of renewing it at half the original cost when the surface has become worn, together with its noiselessness and the saving in wear and tear resulting from its use, it cannot be regarded as very expensive compared with other kinds of roadways whose sole advantage lies in their first cost.



COMPETION if not carried too far, is certainly the life of trade. It tends to stimulate production and consumption. The public interest is apt to suffer when any one firm or company succeeds in obtaining control of the supply of a particular class of goods or materials in general use throughout the country. A number of roofing firms in the city of Toronto are complaining of the disadvantage at which they are placed by the Rockland Slate Company of Quebec. This company, it is said, have agreed to limit the sale of their slate in Toronto to four or five firms, with the object we presume of keeping prices up to a point that will insure continuance of the handsome profits which the company are understood to be making. Those dealers who are so unfortunate as not to be members of the "ring," are compelled to purchase their supplies from United States quarries, and pay thereon the import duty of 8o cents per square. This, as we have said, places them at a serious disadvantage as compared with their competitors who are supplied by the Canadian quarry.



The demand for roofing slate has increased very rapidly within the last five years, with the result that the <firm>Rockland Company </firm>find it impossible to supply the market. In view of

