		PRICE 20 CENTS

<doctype type="text;colophon">VOL. 11.—No VII.	TORONTO, CANADA, JULY, 1889.	$2.00 Per Year.



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H. MORTIMER,	Publisher, 

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the " Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.





NOTICE OF REMOVAL.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER has removed to new offices at No. 14 King Street West, where subscribers and friends of the paper will always receive a hearty welcome.







P

RESIDENT <person>S. E. Dawson</person>, of the <assoc>Council of Arts and Manufactures </assoc>of the Province of Quebec, expresses wonder at the slight notice which the work of the Council has excited from the press and people of Montreal. There are in Montreal alone 570 students pursuing a course of technical training, and in the schools throughout the Province last year the number of such students was 1346.



I

T is said that in the department of the Paris Exhibition designed to illustrate the dwellings of mankind from the earliest times to the present, Canada is represented by an Indian wigwam. We concur in the hope expressed by the Toronto Mail, that the Parisians will not misunderstand the wigwam, and attribute to us a simplicity of architectural style to which we really do not aspire.



A

s we have more than once endeavored to show, where a town decides upon having a system of water works, the municipality should assume the ownership and control, in preference to handing the same over to a private company, as has been done in too many instances. A dispatch from one of our leading Canadian towns, will serve to show where the advantage lies as between the two systems. It slates that " The surplus

in the water works department for 1888 is nearly $9,ooo. This means a reduction of the rates to fully one-half of what they were under private ownership."



I

T is difficult to understand the reasons actuating the City Council of Toronto in refusing to allow the <firm>Consumers' Gas Co. </firm>to compete with other companies for the privilege of lighting the streets by electricity. The Gas Company should be in an advantageous position to supply cheap electric light. Furthermore, in return for the privilege of wiring the streets of the city, it has offered to reduce the price of gas to the citizens to an extent aggregating $50,000 a year. The Council should be interested in securing light for the citizens at the cheapest possible rate, and no hindrance should be placed in the way of a responsible company which offers to supply this requirement.



T

 HE <firm>Scripps League of Western newspapers </firm>have chartered the steamer City of Rome for the purpose of sending a delegation of American artisans to the Paris Exhibition. En route the party will visit Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester, Sheffield, London, and other great manufacturing points in England Glasgow and the shipbuilding industries of the Clyde in Scotland ; Rouen, Paris, and the great lace and silk centres of France ; Essen, Dusseldorf, Antwerp and other leading iron and industrial centres of Germany and Belgium. The central point, however, will be Paris and the facilities which the World's Exposition will afford for observation of mechanical arts in all branches. The delegation will start from New York on the 24th inst. This enterprise has been received with much favor by all interested in the improvement of the artisan on this continent.



U

 ND ER the law prohibiting United States contractors from employing alien labor, a number of Brockville stonemasons have been discharged at Ogdensburg. The Dominion Government will be asked to rescind the privileges enjoyed by American workmen employed in Canada which are not accorded to Canadian workmen employed in the United States. We are not in favor of measures so restrictive as the United States law in question, but considering our geographical situation and the treatment which has been accorded us, the Canadian Government would be justified in adopting similar measures towards the United States. Should it decide upon doing so, we trust the legislation adopted for the purpose will apply to professional as well as unprofessional workmen, and that the motto will be "Canada for the Canadians."



I

T should be a cause of gratification to every Canadian to learn that the contracts for the large conduit pipe across Toronto Bay, as well as for the construction of the new pumping engines required in connection with the extension of the city water-works system, have been awarded to Canadian manufacturers. This circumstance should serve to enlighten those whose opinion has been that none but pipe of small capacity could be produced in quantity in Canadian workshops. One of the objections raised to giving the present contract to the Peter-

