<doctype type="text">	July, 1889	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	77



<article title="Our Illustrations" author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

<building>CHURCH OF ST. MATTHEW</building>, FIRST AVENUE, TORONTO.—



<firm>STRICKLAND & SYMONS, </firm>ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.

THE church on plan consists of a nave 70' x 35', with a wide aisle to the north separated from the nave by an arcade carried on massive pillars of Portage Entry stone. The chancel at the east end occupies the full width of nave, being separated from it by a handsome oak rood screen, which also separates the organ chamber from the church. The chancel, extending farther east, forms the sanctuary, which is in immediate connection with the clergy vestry and choir vestries, etc. The interior of the church will be finished in stucco work, the window and door trimmings and dados being of brick. The nave is amply lighted by five pairs of large windows to the south, and clerestory windows over the nave arcade to the north. It is the intention of the congregation to place a fine memorial glass in the east window of the chancel. The side walls of the nave are 30 ft. high to the cornice, and 50 ft. to the apex of roof. The roof over nave and aisle will be in elaborate open timber work, finished in natural pine. The nave roof extends over chance], but being much more elaborated over that portion than over nave. The sanctuary is finished in pressed brick, sedilia and piscina in Portage Entry stone, showing on the south side the walls and ceilings of the sanctuary above the brickwork will be elaborately decorated in color and bronze. On exterior, the church will be finished with red Credit Valley stone to the height of the window-sills, and above that in red brick relieved with stone trimmings. The design permits of a tower and spire being erected on the northwest corner, and it is hoped soon to have the funds necessary for its completion. The tower over the vestry is to receive the set of chimes for the present. The church will be heated and ventilated on the best system, and the entire chancel fittings and seating of nave are to be in hardword. The building is at present above ground line, and it is hoped that the roof will be on before fall.

A rectory will be erected immediately in connection with the church at a cost of about $5,000.

INTERIOR 01" BANK OF MONTREAL, MONTREAL—MESSRS. <firm>TAYLOR, GORDON & BOUSFIELD</firm> ARCHITECTS, MONTREAL.



<article title="Repose in Architecture" author="">REPOSE IN ARCHITECTURE.



TOO much of the architecture of to-day lacks the element which is most conducive to dignity—repose, writes Mr. <person>E. H. Brown </person>in the Builder and Decorator. Our buildings are like ourselves, full of a nervous, restless energy quaint, picturesque, striking perhaps, but rarely restful. We are too fond of producing feats of architectural gymnastics, buildings, which cause us to stop, look and wonder, but as we see them day after day we soon grow tired of them and long for something different, we know not what, something different is all we ask for. We are astonished and startled by what we see around us, but the work of our architects is too much like the sensational novel of the day turned to stone.

On the banks of the Danube, six miles away from the old town of Ratisbon, stands a building erected by King Louis of Bavaria to commemorate the illustrious dead of Germany. Built upon a massive granite base, up which winds a broad staircase, is an exquisite Greek Doric temple of pure white marble. The hill side is covered with forest trees, in the midst of which the granite walls stand out prominently, while the Walhalla itself is seen clear cut against the distant sky. As we gaze upon it we are almost awe-struck with the sublime beauty and majesty of the building, dominating the landscape as it does with a calm serenity, contrasting strangely with the rushing torrent of the mighty river at the foot of the hill. None of the great Gothic cathedrals, with their sky towering vaults and uplifted spires, can produce the same feeling of sublimity, for none of them exhibit the same majestic repose. <building>Durham Cathedral </building>alone approaches the Walhalla in grandeur, but Durham is not a Gothic building. It too, in the massiveness of its Norman architecture, its great square towers, and time-worn walls, looks down upon us from the cliffs of Durham as if it were some mighty giant who had laid himself down to rest, conscious of his mighty grandeur.

As we walk up Corinthian-avenue in this good city of ours, and see before us the exquisite facade of <building>Girard College</building>, we cannot help feeling the fascination which its quiet majesty exerts upon us. There is no wonder excited within our minds as to what holds the building up amidst the thrust and counterthrust of innumerable arches, pinnacles, and buttresses. There is no startling combination of colors or materials which dashes upon and dazzles our sight as the blare of trumpets deafens our ears. Instead there are vast columns, carrying the simple downward thrust of the weight above them. We can see, without puzzling ourselves, that the building will stand because it cannot help it. The horizontal lines dominating the composition produce the effect of repose which gives the vast white marble building its peculiar majesty. People may smile as they choose at a three-storey building in the cella of a temple, but can they, when brought face to face with it, truthfully say they can view it without feeling impressed by its majestic beauty ?

This element of repose is an essential one in all architectural compositions which make any pretence to being monumental in their character, but is rarely possible in combination with the picturesque. While this latter quality may not be out of place in the cottage or in the village street, it seems to be better suited to out of the way places than to the busy haunts of men. It has no place in the great warehouse, the office building or the business house. These should not be buildings which attract us, perchance, by their quaintness, their odd conceits, or the elaboration of their detail. We have no time in this busy work-a-day world of ours to stop in the midst of our toil for such things as these. They worry us with their oddities and their strange conceits. They are as much out of place as one of Ouida's novels would be in the counting house. Our business building should have quiet dignity, a simple massive grandeur that we will not grow tired of, that will by the very sight of them tend to rest us from the worry and turmoil of our struggle for bread. XVe should study the use of plain wall surfaces, of horizontal mouldings, of exquisite perfection of detail, rather than that of ornament piled on wherever there is space large enough to be carved, or arches of every conceivable shape, or of crow stepped gables turning themselves towards city streets in such profusion that the skyline resembles more the teeth of some huge demon saw, than the roofs of buildings for the use of sober men. Is it not possible for our restless American nature to curb its exuberance and learn to appreciate the value of repose in our architecture, even though we may never allow ourselves any rest in our struggle for the " Almighty Dollar ?"



<article title="Measuring Brickwork" author="">MEASURING BRICKWORK.

I

 PROBABLY the best way to measure brickwork, in the opinion of an American writer, is by the dimensions. The unit of measurement in this case is not important The cubic foot or yard is employed to some extent, but the perch of 25 cubic feet and the superficial rod in brickwork one brick thick, are often used. Unfortunately the term "rod" has no very definite significance. Two hundred and seventy-two and a half feet super, and one and a half bricks thick. 16 1/2 feet square or 272 1/2 square feet and one brick thick, 16, square feet and 63 square feet, are all termed rods." Under these circumstances it would probably be of advantage if the cubic foot or yard could be made the standard unit of measurement for brickwork throughout the country.

It may he added that the number of bricks contained in any piece of built brickwork may be approximately ascertained by (let one-tenth for the volume of mortar.

The sand blast is now utilized for cleaning dingy stone walls of buildings.

Mr. <person>J. Balfour</person>, architect of the new <building>Hamilton court house</building>, has notified the Committee that it will not be possible to erect the building according to his design for the amount subscribed by the council, $75,000.

A new process of hardening plaster so as to make it available for tile construction of floors in place of wood, has been brought before the Wrench Academy of Science by <person>M. Julte. </person>A mixture of six parts of plaster of good quality and one part of finely sifted, recently slacked white lime is employed like ordinary plaster. After it has become thoroughly dry, the object manufactured from it is saturated with a solution of any sulphate whatever whose base is precipitated in an insoluble form by lime. The sulphates especially recommended for the purpose are those of iron and zinc. In order to obtain the maximum of hardness and tenacity, it is necessary to temper the limed plaster well in as brief a space of time as possib1e, and with no more water than strictly necessary.

