<doctype type="text;plate">August, 1889	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	89



to the wharves. A fountain could be placed in the center, and trees planted over nearly the entire space. These piers are shown with a bridge from the end of street to piers, with the object of having a channel along the wharfage front to allow of the water in the basin being changed by every movement of the water in the bay. The construction of a number of such piers in front of the center of the city, and their gradual extension in time, would make Toronto, with its Island, one of the most beautiful cities on this continent.

It may be urged that to lift the tracks 32 feet above the present level would raise them

much too high for station purposes. We have not the levels necessary to determine what should be done, but believe that any difficulty in this direction might be overcome. The height of the tracks could be dropped gradually as the station was approached, if the height should prove too great, and an inclined approach could be made from Front street up to the station level.

We would be in favor of a station after the style of the Broad street station in Philadelphia, with such changes as circumstances might render necessary. Trains enter the above station above the street line, and passengers ascend by

a staircase or take the elevator to the platform level. Cabs, etc., drive under the station, so that passengers may obtain a cab, attend to their baggage, and drive to their destination without being exposed to inclement weather. We would prefer to have a station with a number of through tracks, with platforms between them, to be reached by the passengers passing beneath the tracks, thus doing away with the necessity of passing over tracks to enter the right train, as is very often necessary at the Union Station in Toronto. This plan would also prevent people not acquainted with the station taking the wrong train. All platforms to be closed in by gates, etc., according to the English method. The waiting rooms. ticket offices. baggage

rooms, etc., to be on the lower level, and arranged with the utmost consideration for the travelling public. The height of such passage need not be more than eight feet, with inclined ways as well as stairs to the level of the platform all baggage to be received from and handed over to travellers in a central baggage room of ample size, divided into divisions according to the different lines of railway connections that passengers could easily find their baggage on coming from the landing platform.

We have not the slightest hesitation in stating that one or the most convenient and commodious railway stations could be designed with the railway tracks at a height of 32 feet or more above the level of the Esplanade.

The above scheme may seem to many chimerical, but we believe that the more it is studied the more favourably it will appear. The storehouses should rent readily, and pay a fair interest on the outlay for the viaduct scheme, as there would be a large saving in cartage to many of the occupants, which would allow them to pay higher rents for warehouses placed

as those would be than for those without the same facilities for shipping and receiving goods. The party walls between the warehouses would be made heavy enough to carry the iron girders for the tracks overhead, and as the space would only be about 33 feet, the wall need not be excessively heavy, nor would the girders be of a costly size. The roof would require to be inclosed in fireproof material, and covered with asphalt or some similar material. These warehouses would then have the advantage of being fireproof, and consequently would draw high rents, as insurance could be obtained at low rates.

It would be necessary for the railways to have yards at convenient points for ordinary freight. There should be several, so that freight might be delivered at the most convenient point, that cartage as far as possible might be saved. Building material, for instance, is very heavy and bulky, and if it has to be carted from one end of the city to the other, the cost of delivery is very great. If four freight yards were opened common to all railways, the interests of the city would be well served. There

 should be a yard at or about the foot of Brock street, one east of Sherbourne street, one at North Toronto, and another at Parkdale. All through

freight should be handled in railway yards outside of the city limits. If railways were made to pay taxes on the full value of the property they occupy, they would not find it so advisable to hold more ground within the city limits than they absolutely require.

Just as we were drawing the above to a close, the thought came to us that the railways could use blocks of the above storehouses as freight sheds. For instance, the block from Church to Yonge streets could be used as a freight shed, and goods delivered to the different storehouses according to their destination. Goods for Hamilton could be delivered at the Hamilton storehouse, and transferred to the freight car for Hamilton by means of the elevator. Openings could be left in the party walls so that communication could be had with all the sections of the freight shed. The fact that such freight sheds would be fire proof would make them much more valuable to the railways. Each of the railways could have such blocks as they considered most desirable and were willing to pay rent for on the same basis as tenants of the storehouses.

We have thrown out



the above suggestions, not that we expect they will be adopted, but with the hope that they may lead to the study of the problem from several points of view. We may have drawn on our imagination to some extent, but if it causes others to think out a solution of the problem, good will result. We do not think that a studied out scheme on the above line would cost more than the city could afford. To a very large extent there would be a direct return for the expenditure, and the balance would not be greater than the city can afford to pay for increased health for the citizens, and the improved appearance of the city front.

