

<doctype type="text;plate">RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS

<article title="Recent Canadian Patents" author="">RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS.

House Sewage System.



No. 31,333. <person>George McNeill</person>, Ottawa, Ont.

Claim.—1st. A system of house drainage consisting of a vertical central ventilating pipe, having its lower end connected with the street sewer by a continuation laid with a proper fall, an egg-shaped trap connected to said pipe by a short outlet pipe placed some distance from the bottom of said trap, and the waste pipes of a building having their lower or discharge ends connected with said trap below its connection with the ventilating pipe. 2nd. A trap consisting of a vessel having a removable cover, an outlet placed some distance from the bottom, and branches below the level of the outlet for connection with the waste pipes of a building.

Extension Seat for Pew Ends.



No. 31,412. <person>George F. Bambridge</person>, Toronto, Ontario.

Claim—An extension seat, consisting of back, seat and brace, to fold

and shut into lower part of pew end.



Implements and Machinery used in the Manufacture of Brick

Tile and Earthen ware and Method and process of using such

Implements and Machinery.

No. 31,346. <person>Albert S. Locke </person>and <person>Robert P. Locke</person>, Toronto, Ont.

Claim,—1st. The adjustment of the cleats attached to the under side of any kind of pallet, so as to balance the weight of the bricks resting on the pallets, and the construction or adaptation of moulds and dies to correspond with the position of the cleats on any such pallet. 2nd. The improved method of manufacturing bricks and tiles by means of pallets, moulds and dies, constructed and arranged as herein described. 3rd. The arrangement of the cleats at intermediate points under the pallets, and the







THE NEW TROPIG HOT AIR FURNAGE -

Latest and Best Steel Plate Furnace in the market

LITTI.E	GIANT FURNACES, BOYNTON FURNACES,



PENINSULAR FURNACES



The Largest and Best Assortment of Cast and

Steel Furnaces ever made







Patent Peerless Registers.



UNION STAEM AND HOT WATER RADIATORS.

                         —











<firm>Laidlaw Mfg. Co.,</firm>

HAMILTON

AND



279 Queen St. West, Toronto.

construction of pallets of lighter or thinner material than any now in use, the cleats being moved towards the centre of the pallets, the material of which the pallet is made does not require to be so stiff, strong or thick as in pallets having the cleats at or near the ends. 4th. The combination of pallets, moulds and dies, having spaces between the cavities, and between the holes in the dies corresponding to the position of the cleats on the pallets. 5th. The cleats made with holes or arches instead of being solid, thereby decreasing the weight and allowing the free circulation of the air through the bricks when drying. 6th. the method of equipping a brick yard cheaply. by means of a system of pallets, moulds and dies above described. 7th. And also we claim as our invention the above described method of constructing pallets, cleats, moulds and dies, and the combination of and methods of handling and using the pallets, cleats, moulds amid dies above described, and in any form or way in which the same may tie combined or used in the working of a brick and tile yard or factory, substantially as and for the purpose hereinbefore set forth.



<person>Kenneth Chisholm </person>M.P.P. Brampton, Ont., quarry owner, has assigned.

The <firm>Howard Furnace Co., </firm>of Berlin, Ont., (Limited) with a capital stock of $24,000, has recently been incorporated.

The sewer pipe trust at Pittsburg has dissolved. The small dealers undersold the trust. Prices are now lower than ever.

It is reported that Cleveland, Ohio, capitalists have about completed arrangements to establish an iron tubing factory in Ottawa. The syndicate possesses a new welding process.

Suit has been entered by Mr. <person>R. Forsyth</person>, of Montreal, Canadian agent of Mr. <person>Peter Smart </person>Edinburgh holder if the Canadian patent for composite pavements for $5,000 against Mr. <person>G. Baccerini</person>, of the sante city, for alleged infringements of patent.

A new hydraulic brick is now manufactured in eight different shades of red and brown which, on cheap houses, is designed to supply the place of brownstone or sandstone for trimmings. The shades of color run from a

rather dark brown to a reddish hue, and at a superficial glance might well be taken for the stones the place of which they supply.





<article title="The Nature of Asphalt" author="">THE NATURE AND USES OF ASPHALT.

I N a paper read before the Society of Arts at  the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Capt. <person>F. V. Green </person>states that asphalt is a variety of bitumen, found in a native condition and not

manufactured, and in a solid form is commercially known as glance pitch. Glance pitch is

found in limited quantities in various parts of the Rocky Mountains and Texas. It is very pure and is used to make a high grade of varnish, but its brittleness makes it useless for paving or rooffing compounds.

The asphalt of Trinidad is found in a so-called lake about 130 feet above the sea-level, on

the island of that name. The lake is a level tract, about 114 acres in area, of brownish material of an earthy appearance. It is sufficiently hard to bear the weight of carts and animals, and yet its consistency is such that excavations fifteen feet in depth are filled up by the flow of adjacent material in a few months. It is estimated that the amount of asphalt in the lake is upwards of six million tons. On partial analysis it yields approximately 40 per cent, of pure bitumen, 40 per cent, of earthy and vegetable matter, and 20 per cent. of water. The material is heated in large tanks at a temperature of about 300 Fah.

to drive off the water and let the larger portions of the earthy matter settle and the vegetable matter to be skimmed off the surface. This refined asphalt contains about 60 per cent. of pure bitumen and 40 per cent. of finely divided earthy matter invisible to the eye. This material is too brittle for commercial use, and it is therefore mixed with a heavy, dark oil, known as the residuum of petroleum, in the proportion of six parts of asphalt to one of residuum. Thus is the material so largely used in paving and roofing com positions.

On the coast of California near Santa Barbara and also in certain portions of Colorado, Utah and New Mexico, are found large beds of sandstone containing from 15 per cent, to 20 per cent. of bitumen, and it is from these mines that the asphalt pavements of various cities in Europe have been obtained. Those most suitable for paving contain about 10 per cent. of bitumen and 90 per cent. of fine limestone.

The uses of asphalt may be divided into five classes- viz. 1st as a varnish for paint 2d as an insulating material ; 3d, as a water-proofing material 4th, as a cement in ordinary construction 5th, as a cement in roofing and paving compounds.

FOOT-POWER MACHINERY

COMPLETE OUTFITS for CONTRACTORS and BUILDERS.

Machines for ripping, cross-cutting, scroll-sawing, mortising and tenoning, forming edges, grooving, gaining, rabbeting cutting dadoes, and turning. Builders use our Hand Circular Rip Saw for the greater portion of their ripping in preference to carting their lumber to a mill five minute's drive from their shops. The same is true in regard to scrollsawing , mortising, tenoning, cutting stuff for drawers boxes, etc. B uilders using these machines c in bid

lower and save more money from their contracts than by any



Read the Following Letters from Builders:

<person>CLARENCE F. LEE</person>, carpenter and builder, Morristown, N. J., says:	"I have had one of your

Hand Circular Rip-Saws for about three months, and am much pleased with it. Have done the

ripping for 15 houses in that time, which is over forty miles through Inch boards. Have ripped

as high as 3-inch plank. Table is also good for rabbeting; having rabbeted all jambs

and sawed all drips for 200 windows."

<person>ALEX SHILEDS</person>, LIMA Ohio, says: "A few days since we had some 150 small drawers

to make for a drug store; the steam power mill wanted 50 cents each for making them

With my foot power machinery I made them, and saved $25 above good wages on the job.

If desired, these machines will be sold ON TRIAL.	

 The purchaser can have ample time to test them in his own shop and on the work

he wishes them to do. Descriptive Catalogue and Price List Free.

<firm>W. F. & JOHN BARNES CO., </firm>No. 743 ...Ruby St., Rockford, Ill.