<doctype type="text;plate">	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	August, 1889



city front if it was not so valuable in the present, and if they did not consider that present values are but the suggestion of those of the future. The bay front in the possession of railways, and Toronto would be at their mercy. Everyone knows the value of water communication in lowering and keeping down freight rates. Without water communication, what might not freight rates be raised to by companies whose sole purpose is to make all they can without regard to other interests? If this expropriation of the water frontage were allowed, it would only be a question of a year or two when there would be another demand, and more frontage would go to the advantage of some company without the people receiving any benefit. If the C. P. R. can take possession of the water front and close the streets from Yonge to Simcoe, what is to prevent them in the future claiming that they want more space and taking possession of the frontage as far east as Church street, or even Sherbourne street? And if such should take place, what benefit would the lake be to the citizens except to remind them of the stupidity of those who gave up such a valuable property?

We are pleased to know that the great presumption of the C. P. R. has at last stirred the people to action, and that they are not alone satisfied with opposing the C. P. R. in its demand for the water front, but propose to take the aggressive, and determine if it is

not possible to remove the railway tracks from the level and place them on a viaduct or high level trestle. The railway companies coolly propose that many of the streets should be closed, and that the few remaining ones should have bridges crossing the tracks. It should be a better plan to make steam, not the citizens of Toronto, do whatever work is required in the form of climbing. The question is, what

form should this overhead scheme take, that it may meet every interest with the least disadvantage and at the smallest outlay? <person>Mr. Davies </person>was the first to propose the viaduct scheme many months ago, but at the time it was considered too costly and the suggestion dropped out of view. It has, however, been revived by <person>Mr. Brock</person>, who most earnestly advocates the scheme, with the difference that he proposes that there should be vault accommodation below the tracks. This scheme would remove all the tracks from the level, and consequently all danger to life. The railway tracks being on a level with our streets, causes serious loss of life each year. The law states that trains must not run within the city limits at a greater speed than five miles an hour. That they exceed this limit is admitted, and we are at a loss to know the reason why the city council does not take some means of making the railways observe the law. The railways without hesitation make the city live up to all its agreements with them, even to the smallest item. Then why is the city so very lenient with them? If the railways did not run their trains at a higher rate of speed than five miles an hour within the city limits, it would cause them a delay of at least one and a half hours, which must be a serious loss to a railway company in these days of competition. A viaduct scheme would allow them to run their trains at a high speed

without danger to the citizens, and thus save them much time.

The question now to be considered is, what shall be done with the water front without injury to any interests, not excepting those of the railway? We are in favor of what may be called the viaduct scheme, but would advocate that such arrangement be made as comprehensive as possible. The suggestion that storage vaults could be built between the piers of a viaduct is a good one, but we would go further and propose that a row of warehouses or storehouses be built with a double frontage, above which the railway tracks could be placed, as suggested in the accompanying sketch. These warehouses could be from 6o to 100 feet or more in depth, with a frontage on Esplanade street, and one on a street to the south of same. Such number of tracks could be built above the warehouses as might be required for through trains, and also for the disposal of freight cars. The sketch shows two through tracks and two freight tracks, one for cars being unloaded, the other to be used for shunting purposes. The warehouse would be in width from center to center the length of a freight car, so that a car would stand opposite to the elevators to the warehouses. These elevators could be run from a line of shafting driven by an engine at some convenient point. Such an arrangement would allow of freight

being unloaded directly into the storehouse without cart-age, where it could remain until such time as it might be convenient to remove it to the business warehouse. In fact, the goods need never leave these store h o u s e s until they are sent to the purchasers, as they could be loaded into cars from these store h o u s e s with equal facility to that with which they were unloaded. More-

over, goods could be received by rail and shipped by water, or vice versa without cartage, the idea being to have a combined street and wharf on the bay side of the warehouses, alongside of which vessels of all kinds could lie and unload. The street or wharf could be made of such width as might be determined upon as most convenient. If these storehouses consisted of two storeys and a basement, the tracks need not be placed at a greater height above the present rails than 32 feet. The streets to the bay would be kept full width and crossed by iron girders. The wharf age front we would have as straight as possible, but running parallel to the storehouses. At the ends of all streets, with a few exceptions, we would build a pier somewhat after the form suggested in sketch ; these piers to be carried to the windmill line with a straight face towards the bay. These piers would enclose basins by which vessels could be brought to the wharf in front of the storehouses, where they could discharge their cargoes. Passenger steamers would lie along the outside face of the piers or run into the entrance to the basin and lie alongside of the pier at these points ; the entire space enclosed by the cribwork of these piers to be filled in with earth and sodded, with the exception of such space along the outside edge of the cribwork as might be required for the loading or unloading of such vessels as might not require to go

