



<doctype type="colophon;text">Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. M ORTIMER, Publisher

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



S UBSCRI PTIO NS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITFCT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada

or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be

discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will he continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



A DVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S A NNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The Ontario Association of Architects has appointed the Canadian Architect and Builder official paper.



T

 HE Commissioner of Public Works of the city of New York, has set a good example to his contemporaries in other cities, by adopting the suggestion of the Local Board of Health to compel contractors making excavations in the city for building or other purposes, to use disinfectants on the work.



T

HE cities of Toronto and London, Ont, have decided to erect crematories for the disposal of garbage. The health of the citizens of these cities has long demanded action of this character, and they should find cause for congratulation even in its tardy arrival. It is to the credit of London, that although the smaller city of the two, it took the initiatory step in this important reform.



I

N commenting on the conditions of the recent competition for plans for a new <building>Court House, Woodstock, Ont. </building>building at Woodstock, Ont., we pointed out the extreme difficulty, if not the impossibility, of constructing a building which should contain the accommodation required, for the sum of $60,000, the limit of cost fixed by the county authorities. This view seems to be justified by the fact that it has been found impossible to erect the building in accordance with the preferred design of Mr. <person>J. Balfour</person>, architect, for less than $100,000. Mr. Balfour no doubt had in mind the limit of cost in the preparation of his design, and endeavored to approximate as closely as possible thereto, but the extent of the requirements as compared with the fixed appropriation for the erection of the building, seems to have rendered the task impossible.

W

E were somewhat surprised to be shown a copy of a letter from the <assoc>Stonecutters' Union </assoc>to different parties in Toronto, stating that the Union intended to have a picnic and that it took this means of allowing the parties to whom those letters were addressed the opportunity of contributing 10 the picnic funds. That a body of men of the standing of the stonecutters in Toronto, and earning the wages which they do, would so far forget their manhood, is more than we can understand. They surely do not propose to enter into competition with the <assoc>Fresh Air Society </assoc>and seek to divert from that Society funds which it requires for the most excellent work which it is doing in sending children who are sadly in need of the invigorating influence of fresh air of the country, where they may enjoy it for a few short hours. One would suppose that men earning 40 cents per hour, and having more work than they can do. would scorn to have others do for them what they are so well able to do for themselves.



T

HE plea is being urged by a Toronto newspaper that the street cars should be run on Sundays in order that tradesmen, clerks, etc., might recuperate their wasted energies by spending Sunday at High Park or some of the other suburban pleasure resorts. While there may be some ground for this appeal, we are disposed to coincide with the many who have expressed the opinion that the running of street cars on Sunday would open the door for the indulgence of vicious practices which under existing circumstances cannot be carried on within the limits of the city proper and under the watchful eye of the police. We fear that whatever benefits might be conferred by the proposed new departure, would be more than counterbalanced by resultant evils. A much better plan in the interests of the masses would be the establishment of a number of parks of medium extent throughout the thickly-populated districts of the city. These could be reached and enjoyed with little exertion, and without entailing upon a considerable number of persons the necessity of Sunday labor.



A

 MEETING of the Board of Directors of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>was held in Toronto on June i6th, to arrange preliminaries in connection with the approaching annual convention in November. Some eight or ten papers on a variety of interesting subjects have already been promised. It is proposed to hold an exhibition of drawings at the Canadian Institute rooms. Members of the Association are urged to assist in making this exhibition as large and interesting as possible. Those who may wish to send drawings for exhibition should correspond with the Secretary of the Association on the subject at as early a date as possible. It is intended that the convention shall extend over at least two days, and shall include a dinner on the evening of the first day. The Secretary has been in communication with the promotors of the movement in England for incorporation, and from this source has gained information which will prove of much service to the committee appointed by the Ontario Association to further similar objects in Canada. This committee we are pleased to learn, is making satisfactory progress with the work assigned to it.

