<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



Jacques Cartier's shield with the device Semper fidelis, and immediately below, the following inscription —JACQUES CARTIER

ET SES HARDIS COMPAGNONS

LES MARINS

DE LA GRANDE HERMINE

LE PETITE HERMINE

ET DE L'EMERILLON



PASSERENT ICI L'HIVER

DE 1535-36

Below this is the crest of Lord Stanley of Preston, Canada, and device: Sans changer."

On the east side is this inscription —LE 23 SEPTEMBRE 1625



LES PERES



JEAN DE BREBOEUF ENNEMOND



MASSE, ET CHARLES LALLEMANT



PR IR ENT SOLENNELLEMENT POSSESSION



DU TERRAIN APPELE FORT JACQUES



CARTIER, SITUE AU CONFLUENT



DES RIVIERES.ST-CHARLES ET



LAIRET POUR Y ERIGER LA PREMIERE



RESIDENSE



 DES MISSIONNAIRES JESUITES

A QUEBEC

Governor-General of

Below is found the crest of Lieutenant-Governor Angers with the device Par droiets chemins.

The south side is surrounded with the arms of the Cercle Catholique de Quebec, representing the Sacred Heart, with the device: In manifestatione vertitatis and this inscription —LE 3 MAI, 1536

<person>JACQUES CARTIER</person>

FIT PLANTER A L'ENDROIT OU IL VENAIT

DE PASSER L'HIVER UN CROIX DE

35 PIEDS DE HAUTEUR PORTANT

I.'EOUSSON FLEURDELYSE ET

L'INSCRIPTION

FRANCISCUS PRIMUS DEI GRACIA REX

REGNAT

Below the inscription is the crest of Cardinal Taschereau and the device:

In fide, spe el charitate certandum.

On the west side is engraved a palm with the names of the Jesuit martyrs ogues, Gamier, Masse and De None at the right and Brebeuf, Lallemant,

Buteau and Daniel on the left. Below is the shield of the Jesuit Order and the device Ad malorern Dei gloriam.

The monument was designed by Mr. <person>E. E. Tache </person>and executed by Mr. <person>J. A. Belanger</person>. The granite of which it is composed comes from the quarries of Migwick, on the line of the Quebec & Lake St. John Railway.



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">Montreal.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



A PROPHET BATH HONOR SAVE IN HIS OWN COUNTRY.'



C

ANADIAN architects, if you want to be employed on Canadian works go at once, rent an office in Albany, Syracuse, Boston, New York, or some small American town—but it must be American, otherwise you will never be appreciated by the Canadian public. In Montreal to-day it does not matter what your antecedents may have been Hang up your shingle as an architect from Boston and New York run down every other local architect never mind your own social standing ; keep up lots of style; take all the credit trades will give you, and when any important work is to be given, our public will ask no questions. and will put aside well-known and reliable men to make room for you. For all this we have but ourselves to blame. There is no esprit de corps among our Montreal architects, but on the contrary, a feeling of jealousy prevails. It is a great pity we have not some such society as the R. I. B. A. of England, to raise the standard of our profession.

'Honor and shame from no condition rise,

Act well you part, therein the honor lies.'

<building>Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, Montreal</building>.

'There is no little excitement among the building trade of this city regarding the awarding of the contracts for the above building. '[he building committee of the V. M. C. A.. following the example of other corporate bodies of Montreal and Toronto, employed an American architect to pre pare plans, specifications. etc., for the proposed new building on Dominion square. Our builders naturally jeered the local architects at the Committee having to go outside of the Dominion to get a very ordinary building designed. We could only ' grin and bear it." To-day. however, the tables are turned and there is a great howl. A syndicate from Syracuse. U. S., have tendered for the construction of the work and underbid the Montreal contractors I hear some $30,000 on the original plans, and some $10,000 on revised plans, and were consequently awarded the contract. So the architects have the laugh this time, and wonder how it is the Committee have to ' go outside the Dominion to get a very ordinary building erected.

I cannot understand how it is an American syndicate can come into a

Canadian city and underbid the local contractors, unless it is accounted for by the fact that our builders, not knowing the architects and their style of work, interpret their specifications differently from the American syndicate who are perhaps acquainted with the architects style. We shall watch the progress of the contractors with interest, and perhaps may yet learn how to build cheaply.

It is rumored that Mr. <person>Warden King</person>, Chairman of the Building Committee, who is also proprietor of a large foundry here, has resigned his position as chairman, and issued a circular to that effect to the local builders. 'This I understand was done previous to the opening of the tenders, but as the Yankees say, I guess he smelt a mice" and wanted to keep in with the building trade, but even that does not soothe their angry passions, and they are unanimous in saying that when the collectors come round they will be told to go to Syracuse and collect the necessary funds to erect their building.

DUTY ON PLANS.



Have Canadian architects no protection? We live under a protective Government—our bread, clothes, the material we use to gain our living, are all taxed to help to make the revenue of this Canada of ours"? Our local corporations levy business taxes on us to keep up the city, and yet plans and specifications can be imported from the States free of duty under the very eyes of our otherwise watchful Custom House officers. It would be interesting to know whether they are classed as works of art, artful work's, or simply smuggled across the line.



CITY HALL NOTES.



Mr. <person>P. W. St. George</person>, City Surveyor, has just returned from a two months leave of absence. I hear he has visited all the chief cities on the other side and studied the question of pavements, roads, sewers, etc. It is earnestly hoped that he has obtained a few good pointers on the construction of roads especially, for Montreal to-day possesses worse roads than any other city I have ever seen. This is in a measure accounted for by the fact that no sooner is a street put in good order by the Road Department than the Water Department or Gas Company come along and cut it up again. Then again it strikes me as ridiculous to see a road made by spreading a few inches of macadam over the surface, burying it in fine sand, which the first heavy shower of rain washes away and conducts to the nearest gulley, from which it has to be removed and carted to the dump. Surely there is some better treatment for roads than this. That it is possible to make good roads in this country, I would refer the Department to the roads of the Turnpike Trust.

I do not wish it to be inferred that I am finding fault with our City Surveyor, because it the money was not forthcoming and he himself not armed with the necessary authority, we must hold him blameless in thc premises.

The Council have at last appointed an assistant to <person>Mr. McConnell</person>, Superintendent of the <firm>Montreal Water Works</firm>. The fortunate candidate is a <person>Mr. Laforest</person>, of Joliette. It is to be hoped that lie will prove an efficient assistant to the worthy chief, and will doubtless be given ample opportunity to show a good record.

BUILDING NOTES.

The building trade 5 considered brisk, an improvement if anything on last month. Contracts have been let for the following buildings

A large Catholic Church, on St. Antoine St. a house on Dorchester St., for <person>R. Forsyth </person>a block of tenements on Bishop St., for <person>Mr. Roman</person>: two houses on Dorchester St., for <person>George Roberts</person>, builder a block of tenements on Versailles, for Wm. Moore an addition to the Merchants' Cotton Factory; a house on Sherbrooke St., for <person>Mr. Allan</person>, and some stores on St. Catherine St. for <person>W. Weir</person>.



<article title="How to Estimate" author="">HOW TO ESTIMATE

"CATO."



I

N connection with excavations, the following data will be found serviceable as it gives the approximate quantity of the work. A good laborer

ought to do in a day of ten hours hacking ground with a pick, light earth

16 cubic yards; clay. 10 cubic yards; gravelly soil, cubic yards; chalk,

20 cubic yards. Filling barrows, average soil, 20 cubic yards per day.

Wheeling, 25 cubic yards depositing and returning, 35 cubic yards.

A load equals 1 cubic yard of 27 cubic feet. An ordinary contractor's cart, 6 feet long x feet wide, 22 feet deep, will hold cubic feet, or 2 1/2 tons of clay.

A contractor's wheel barrow will hold one tenth of a cubic yard, or around 2 2/3 cubic feet.

ton of pit sand will equal 29 cubic feet; ton of pit coarse gravel, 19 cubic feet; 1 ton clean shingle, 23 cubic feet ton stiff clay, 10 cubic feet, and ton mould or earth, 32 cubic feet.



If it be desired therefore to figure up how long it will take to pick out any of the above mentioned kinds of ground, all that is necessary after finding the number of cubic feet in the whole excavation, is taking for instance the number contained in that stated in the June issue, say 5,400 cubic feet. For filling into barrows, working to the table

20X 27 = 540

540)5400(10 days.

540



00

Wheeling 25 yards depositing and returning,

25 X 27=675)5400(8

5400

