<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



that mistakes once pointed out might be avoided in future works. It will not do to settle down in calm complacency and cry

"well done," whilst better remains before, and if the next statue erected in the country be not a nearer approach to a great work than the subject of the present letter, and rise above tame mediocrity, the artistic community will be sincerely to blame if by keeping silence where speech would be golden, they permit the public to rest content and plume themselves on the advances culture and art have made in our Canadian home.

Respectfully yours,

ONWARD AND UPWARD





<article title="Correspondence – Memorial Window" author="">MEMORIAL WINDOW.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BU ILDER



DEAR SIR,—A two-line notice in a local paper recently announced that a memorial window was inserted to the memory of <person>Charles Jones </person>Esq., in the Cathedral at Hamilton. This appears, on inspection of the window in question, rather scant recognition of a work important and meritorious as a specimen of Canadian art-decoration. The window, although of one opening only, attains the height of over 17 feet from the sill, and over 3 feet in width. Within this space are illustrated two Scripture subjects— the larger and most considerable showing "Nicodemus Coming to Christ by Night." The smaller, in the base, is "The Charge to Peter." In the former somewhat uncommon theme, a like uncommon effect is produced by partial representation of lamplight from one pendant lamp and another on brazier. Although treated in a somewhat conventional manner, the balance of tone and rich harmony of color, enhances the interest of the leading motif——the placid majesty of the Great Teacher and the rapt attention of the timorous, but enthusiastic disciple. The base subject is less a departure from traditional treatment, and though possessing good points, is less successful than the larger. The ornament is elaborate and appropriate. The window is from the studio of <firm>McCausland & Son</firm>, Toronto.

H A MI LTONI AN.



<article title="Correspondence – Art Education in Ontario" author="Jones, Samual M.">ART EDUCATION IN ONTARIO."

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—-Your last issue contained a letter on the above subject, in the course of which the writer, after delivering some unvarnished criticisms on the men of light and leading, is kind enough to break the current of his strictures by a word of commendation and encouragement to the "<assoc>Toronto Art Students' League</assoc>." As representing that society, permit me to say. we are grateful for any recognition in our arduous uphill tight, especially from one so conversant with the whole subject, and whose opinion, endorsed by the silent authority of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, should have due weight with all interested in art matters. It is too true, as "Anti-Humbug" pertinently points out, that the money voted for the encouragement of art is at present worse than wasted. Whilst those who make a pretense, get well paid, others doing the real work, very politely and courteously, but none the less unmistakeably, refused a cent of the grant for that purpose, on the ground that all moneys voted for art purposes are required for some years yet to form the nucleus of a building fund. But while at the present rate of progress this may be a good prospect for the next generation, it is well to remember the old proverb which says that "while the grass grows, the horse starves." Thus while the life-class in Ottawa and Montreal get $3oo a year each (1 don't know what other support is awarded elsewhere) we are to starve on the husks of prodigal promises for the future.

I suppose having tramped it thus far without a lift from "carriage folk" (to use an unhackneyed expression) we can foot it the rest of the way up the "hill difficulty," but like "poor Joe," it's " werry 'ard to keep movin' on " without plenty of "chivying" from policeman "Debt." Of course we could greatly augment our numbers and friends if we prostituted the purposes of art study to flirt with amateurism, and opened our ranks to all forms of dainty dilletante triflers. But being, like Mark Twain's pilgrims, "just 2 handful" of earnest workers, we have the temerity to consider that some responsibility devolves on us to keep ourselves pure and unspotted in that re

spect, and for the sake of the art reputation of the Queen City, and the prospect of equipping some of the art students of the rising generation, to save a corner of solid ground for the coming men to build up this fair city's art future upon.

Just over a score of us, and ne'er a millionaire among us, the expenses of carrying on the class weigh heavily on our devoted shoulders, but we must not be misunderstood to be asking charity when we demand our just rights of recognition and aid ; much less would I desire the impression to be left that we wish to disparage the efforts of other bodies of artists, but simply to protest against the position of being, although acknowledged to be efficient and praiseworthy, the only section left out in the cold, while some others, according to " Anti-Humbug," owe their inertia to too much "coddling."

Thanking your correspondent and yourself on behalf of the Art Student's League, I am,

Yours faithfully,

<person>SAMual M. JONES</person>,



Corresponding Secretary.





<article title="Plumbers and the Advance of Sanitary Science" author="">PLUMBERS AND THE ADVANCE OF SANITARY SCIENCE.

<person>L. D. HOSFORD</person>, of New York, in a short address urging the importance of registration of plumbers, based on competent examination, said

Another question which has suggested itself to my mind while sitting in this room is, What are we doing in the line of progress in sanitary science ? Are we not to a certain extent a mutal admiration society? What developments are being made in the prosecution of our business ? We are continually growling about interference from a class of people known as sanitary engineers and scientific men.

It must be acknowledged that they find business to do and work to condemn----we must have in the past done poor work, otherwise there would be no such men condemning our work and no such work to condemn, consequently we are directly responsible for this class of men. Is the proper attention paid to the development of scientific problems appertaining directly to our business?

I have been a member of the <assoc>New York Association of Master Plumbers </assoc>for about two years, in which we have a committee called the Sanitary Committee, which to my knowledge has never been heard from with but one exception in that time. Is that right ?

Ought we not to employ scientific men to lecture in our local organizations? Are we too proud or bigoted to accept their instruction ? We advocate this class of instruction in our trade schools to-day and some of the scholars are better versed in technical knowledge than some of the master mechanics. I confess my ignorance on a thousand subjects appertaining directly to my business, and I find on conversing that my colleagues are equally ignorant. Ought we not to give more attention to this particular point ?

I am aware that the National Association can do little in this matter except through the councils of the local Association. I consider that the ventilation of the dwelling house belongs as much to the plumbing business as the ventilation of the drainage system. Should we not have a blackboard, a coarse of lectures on plumbing in every council of local associations ?

In one of the reports read on this floor yesterday the statement was made therein that a certain department had forced the plumbers to good work. Is not this rough on the plumber? Ought he not to lead rather than be driven in such matters ? It is true that upon the recommendation of our Association Health Board rules and laws are sometimes founded ? Is not this the proper way at all times ?





We have received from the author, Mr. <person>J. A. L. Waddell, </person>consulting engineer, Kansas City, Mo., a copy of a timely treatise, in pamphlet form, entitled, "Iron Viaducts for Highways." The writer in this little work gives many useful hints regarding faulty design and construction of viaducts, with instructions as to the proper manner of letting contracts for these structures so as to secure efficiency and economy.

