		 PRICE <doctype type="colophon;text">20 CENTS

VOL. 11.—No IX.	TORONTO, CANADA, SEPTEMBER, 1889.	{ $2.00 PER YEAR.



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



 ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

	DECORATORS,	BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND 

MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C.	H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.





The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.





Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.

	The Ontario	Association of	Architects	has appointed	the

"Canadian	Architect	and	Builder"	its official paper. 





M

R. <person>W. WEBSTER'S </person>experiments at Crossness, for treating the sewage of London with a view to its purification by electricity have so far been successful that the London City Council has engaged an electrical engineer to watch the undertaking in Its behalf, and over 11,000 tons of lime and sulphate of iron have been ordered for use in carrying on the new method.



I

 T gives us pleasure to see the Hamilton City Council waking up to the necessity of providing the citizens with a number of easily accessible parks. Hamilton and Toronto are both sadly deficient in this respect. The sooner steps are taken to procure the necessary park property, the better it will be for the taxpayers, as the cost of land in central localities is Increasing very rapidly.



THE Dominion Trades and Labor Congress will ask Government to declare that eight hours shall constitute a

day's work. One prominent delegate to the recent convention expressed the hope that they would ultimately get the public educated up to the point of recognizing six hours as a fair day's work. If our observation is not astray, there are not a few " labor representatives" who secretly cherish the hope that eventually they will get paid for doing nothing.



I

 T was somewhat amusing to read in the daily papers a fortnight ago that in anticipation of the crowd of visitors to the Toronto Industrial Exhibition, the Building Inspector was determined to enforce the by-law limiting the amount of space on

the public thoroughfares which may be occupied by materials for use in buildings under construction. It is a well-known fact that the provisions of the law in regard to this matter have been disregarded in a great many instances, and this gives rise to the question, why is not the law enforced at all times, instead of only at Exhibition time? The convenience of the citizens of Toronto and those who pay the city taxes are surely entitled to as much consideration as those of residents of other places who pay Toronto a visit once a year.



T

 HE St. Johns, Que., News says " We want waterworks badly in this little factory town, and any company who will undertake to supply the same will find the investment a profitable one. Nature has done her share of the work. Copious springs are located on Pine Hill." If the natural sources of water supply are so advantageously at hand, and profitable results so certain, why do the citizens of St. John fold their hands and wait for some outsider to come along and make money out of the enterprise? Why does not the corporation build a system  of waterworks, and apply the profits to reducing municipal taxation ? If there is an opening for an individual to make money, there should be an equal chance for the municipality. We have more than once pointed out this fact, together with the advantages arising from the ownership and control of the water supply being vested in the municipality instead in of the hands of a private company.



T

HE growth of the electric bell business in Canada during the past few years has been truly surprising, and the manufacturers of the ordinary door bells have felt the opposition so keenly that they have been putting forth all their efforts to produce a bell that would resemble the electric bell as much as possible, both in appearance and tone, and at the same time be sold at a low price. The latest result of these efforts is a clockwork bell intended to be placed on the inside of the door and wound up by turning the gong around. A mechanical push button is placed on the outside of the door, and on being pressed releases the clockwork in the bell, which produces a vibrating ring much similar to the electric bell. This imitation is all very well as far as it goes, but it costs more than the electric bell, is more liable to get out of order, and besides the bell and push button have to be placed close together, so that the new arrangement is at the best only adapted to certain circumstances which seldom exist.



A

FTER a series of changes and delays covering a period of several years, the work of erecting the new municipal buildings for the city of Toronto and county of York, has at last been commenced. It is to be hoped the period of delay is ended, and that this important undertaking will now be pushed straight through to completion in as short a time as may be necessary to ensure good workmanship. We share in the regret expressed by the Mayor that a competent commission was not appointed to superintend the work. We still believe that the appointment of such a commission would have proved an economical step in

