<doctype type="text">September, 1889	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	105



for the blue vault of the sky, the starry concave of the heavens. It was a fine idea of the builders of the mosque of St. Sophia at Constantinople a conception in advance of ours — to make the curve of its dome so flat that it should seem to correspond with that of the sky, and be a portion of the firmament. We want an enlarged, improved, enriched, and at the same time inexpensive system of interior decoration, for domestic and ecclesiastical, and other buildings, in our anglo-classic style..

For churches, collegiate and other buildings in the pointed style, we have examples in our cathedrals and other buildings, which prove that the genius of interior decoration was once among us, as well as the taste to employ it. At Henry the Seventh and King's College Chapels the Oratory at Beauchamp Chapel the Temple Church; Wolsey's Hall, Hampton Court Christ Church Hall, Oxford Westminster Hall, and others, we have ceilings and roofs that might vie with any that Europe could show. For assistance in evolving a system of Classic decorations we might look to some parts of the Continent. Exterior decoration there has sometimes probably been carried too far, a few Continental edifices exhibiting ornaments so minute and fragile as to seem at least unfit for exposure to the weather in any climate. But this could not be said of interiors. The Moorish or Morisco-Spanish architecture suggests to us what richness might be produced by very simple means their icicle pendants, inlays, and casings, and purely geometrical and imaginative ornaments, are very effective, and with them they often produce greater results than we, with all nature to imitate, have attained to. But the art of interior decoration was better understood and more successfully practiced in the great age of modern art in Italy, and indeed throughout the Middle Ages than at present in any country. We never had any decoration to be compared with the mural and fresco paintings of the Italians, and there is probability in the supposition that their system was obtained from the remains of the ancients, which time or violence has not spared to us. Beside the curved and richly emblazoned ceilings produced by the Italians, and the pictorial embellishment of their walls, ours might symbolize poverty itself. The ceilings of the principal apartments of a Roman, Genoese, Venetian, or Florentine palace were considered as most important features, and on their design and execution the highest talent was employed. In ecclesiastical buildings the contrast with ours would be still greater. Whilst the interior of the churches of Italy glow with every rich hue of the marble quarry, and are virtually galleries of art, what is the aspect of ours?



<article title="Electrical Plumbers" author="">ELECTRICAL PLUMBERS.



T

 HE Engineering Record says "A new class of craftsmen have sprung up all over the country within the past six or seven years who bid fair to become scientific artisans, in their line, on account of the practical knowledge necessary in the business.

"They are known as the 'electrical' or 'special' plumbers. Their duties are to weld the joints of subway cables, and to do this successfully they must not only be first-class plumbers, but intelligent workmen, who can learn something about electricity and the necessity of perfect insulation of circuits. Few people who have watched the placing of underground cables can appreciate the important part the electrical plumber plays in the matter. Each year he becomes better known, and, it is safe to say, he will continue to increase in numbers and in prosperity. The salary of an electrical plumber is about $5 a day.



Letters patent are being sought at Ottawa incorporating the <firm>National Construction Co., </firm>of Yarmouth, N. S., for the purpose of acquiring railways, tramways, wharves, etc., and also for the construction of houses and other buildings. The capital is to be $5,000,000.



We are in receipt of the first number of The Builders' Exchange, which is henceforth to be published monthly in Boston as the official journal of the <assoc>National Association of Builders of the United States</assoc>. The editor is Mr. <person>W. H. Sayward</person>, the capable Secretary of the above Association, to whom we extend the right hand of journalistic fellowship.

<article title="Suburban Sanitation" author="">SUBURBAN SANITATION.



 QUITE often in the designing of suburban residences, where there is no proper sewerage system, say <person>G. C. Kaufman </person>in the Building Advertiser, the architect meets with a very vexing problem, that of disposing of the sewage and rain so as to attain a good standard of sanitation ; and again, to have the sewerage construction as cheap and practicable as possible.

The first matter to be noted is the fall of the land surrounding the residence to be constructed and the character of the soil. The soil should slope from all sides of the foundation so as to make fall enough for the rainfall to drain from the walls. In climates where the rainfall is very large for a given time, a method more effective than the foregoing should be employed

—one that is more direct in its action, so as to carry away from the foundations the copious flow of surface water. The method most practicable is to dig trenches in the direction of the fall of the soil, about eighteen inches wide, and not more than two feet below the floor line of the cellar or basement. The trenches should not be less than twenty feet in length and running or radiating with not more than twenty feet apart at their sources.

Fill the trenches to a depth of two feet with coarse gravel and broken stone ; fill the remainder of the trench with soil well packed down. By doing this you have a complete system of channels leading from the house, and all surface water which sinks downward will reach these channels and be conducted from the foundation walls and soil surrounding the residence.

This should be an important matter to the owner and should not be looked upon as an unnecessary expense, but on the contrary as one of the main features for health and comfort.

There can be noticed in many basements and cellars a blackening of the first-story beams with incipient decay, or a chilly atmosphere with a peculiar and penetrating smell, especially after rains, Such are the houses where people die of consumption and other lung diseases ; or the churches that you enter with a sudden depressive feeling and leave with a cold or head ache. There is an abundance of such homes and buildings where the sickness of the inmates is directly or indirectly caused by the gross negligence of the owners in this one important feature.

Dampness about the house should at all times be avoided, as it is one of the chief constituents in the growth of bacteria and other unhealthful and poisonous germs of disease. Let the architect in all cases arrange the drainage as near to perfection as possible and refuse to allow any but absolute security against water or dampness within the foundation walls.

There are many other methods of drainage which are more costly and complicated, but which serve to the same end. By this simple method the rainfall sinks to the gravel in the trenches and finds an easy escape, thereby leaving the cellar and foundation dry and healthful.

Having mentioned the chief features and advantages of the proper drainage of the area in question one would naturally turn to the house problem—the disposal of sewage.

There are a great many systems devised and advocated. Some are very costly, while others are defective in some measure. The best plan, and one which has been adopted both on a small and large scale, is the surface irrigation of the sewage that is, the removing and disposing of it by means of pipes, so laid as to leave the matter in the undersurface. The sun, soil and air are the principles of action in this plan, together with a series of receiving tanks which perform the operations of settling and intermittent flushing.

The flushing tank should be as simple as possible and not have a complicated mass of pipes and mechanism, which is liable to become rusted or choked up with matter. The best and most effective design for a flushing arrangement is a series of these tanks—the receiving or settling tank, the flushing tank and a final discharge tank, which contains the siphon connect-

