<doctype type="text">106 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	September, 1889



ing with the flushing tank. The receiving tank should be made large enough to contain about one-third of the probable discharge of sewage for one day ; that is, up to the overflow to the flushing tank, which should be about two-thirds up the side of the tank and have an inlet extend downward below thc water line. The same direction applies to the house discharge to the receiving tank.

As the sewage rises up in the receiver to the overflow it then discharges in the flushing tank as it comes in access in the receiver. The flush tank is connected then at the base with the discharge tank, by means of a siphon, the neck of which rises up to the mean water line of the receiver and flush tank As soon as the siphon is filled to the mean level the sewage gradually drips over until a siphon is produced, and then the sewage rushes out in the discharge tank and to the main pipe and its various branches, thereby causing a complete evacuation of the flush tank. This process is again brought about as soon as the flush tank is filled again. By constructing the three tanks to suit the discharge per diem, one can have a thorough flushing of the system three or more times per day.

The main pipe leading from the discharge tank should have tight joints, but its branches should be two inch terra-cotta tile laid with open joints, so as to allow the sewage to sink away as it passes through the different branches.

The tile should be laid not less than twelve inches below the surface, and have a fall of not less than one foot in fifty. The different branches should be laid about five feet apart.



<article title="The Size of Register to Use" author="">THE SIZE OF REGISTER TO USE.

R

EGARDING the sizes of registers and pipes for different sized rooms, the following is taken from the catalogue of a prominent furnace company: In public halls or buildings where but a single register is required, take the hot air pipes from the top of the furnace and use register without valves. The size of pipes and registers requisite for the successful operation of any furnace is a matter requiring the best judgment, and should be determined by the size, position, and distance from the furnace of the spaces to be heated and cannot be governed by any fixed rule. We usually recommend for rooms of ordinary height as follows

Room on first floor, 12 x 14 feet, should have 8 inch pipe with 8 x 12 register.

Room on first floor, 12 x 18 feet, should have 9-inch pipe with 9x 12 register.

Room on first floor, 16 x 20 feet, should have 10-inch pipe with 10 x 14 register.

Room on second floor, 8 x 12 feet, should have 7-inch pipe with 8 x 10 register.

Room on second floor, 10 x 16 feet, should have 8-inch pipe with 9 x 12 register.

Room on second floor, 12 x 16 feet, should have 9-inch pipe with 10 x 14 register. Medium size halls should have 10-inch pipe with 10 x 14 register. Large size halls should have 12-inch pipe with 12 x 15 register.

When oval or flat pipes are built in the walls of an ordinary three or four story city house, the basement room and parlors should have independent pipes second, third and fourth story rooms can be warmed by a single line of pipe reduced in size over each register, viz:

A house 18 or 20 X 45 or 50 should have a separate pipe, 4 x  16 to basement.

A house 18 or 20 x 45 or 50 should have a separate pipe, 4 x  16 to each parlor.

A house 18 or 20 x 45 or 50 should have one line,  4 x 18 to second story, reduced to 4 x 14 for third story, reduced to 4 x 9 for fourth story.

A house, three storys, 20 X 45 or 50 should have one line, 4 x 16 to second story, reduced to 4 x 9 for third story.

The above sizes to be varied according to the size of house and general division of the interior space.

4 x 24 pipe in the wall should have 12-inch pipe connected with furnace.

4 x 20 pipe in the wall should have 10-inch pipe connected with furnace.

<article title="Endurance of Wood Posts in Fires" author="">ENDURANCE OF WOOD POSTS IN FIRES.



contents of a building, says <person>E. M. Shaw</person>, in the Architect, (London,) have undoubtedly much to (10 with its safety or danger, but in

estimating the whole risk, the materials of which the building is constructed must never be put out of consideration. Every building cannot be erected with brick column and groined arches, but there is a vast range between these and the miserable cast iron pots too commonly to be seen, many of which have been put in without having been tested for strength even at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, much less at that of a tire. The following illustration may be given of a fact well-known to all firemen of experience, but seldom proved to demonstration for those not specially interested.

A fire occurred in a warehouse of enormous proportions and raged with great fury for five hours, at the end of which time it was extinguished, and a very large proportion of the building and its contents saved. The warehouse was constructed of brick walls; it had wooden floors supported on wooden beams, which in their turn were carried on wooden story posts about 12 inches thick, and, although serious damage was done, not one portion of the heavy wood-work was destroyed. After the fire, the proprietors allowed the chief of the fire brigade to remove one of the story posts, with a section of the beams and other parts surrounding it above and below.

This post had been subjected to the full action of the fire during the whole of its duration, as already mentioned, or, making full allowance for everything, including the delay of the fire attacking the particular spot on which it stood, and the time at which the cooling process commenced, certainly not less than four and a half hours. As large quantities of water had been used, and it was probable that everything had been saturated, the wood was carefully dried before a strong fire until not a trace of moisture remained in it. It was then set on end in an open yard, exactly as it had stood in the warehouse, with the pedestal underneath, the cap above, and the beam across the cap, more than a ton of shavings, light wood and heavy wood were placed around it, and after the whole heap was saturated with petroleum, a light was applied to it, and after this, large quantities of petroleum and turpentine were pumped on it. At the end of two and a half hours the post, beam and other parts were withdrawn from the fire, and within a few minutes from the time they were withdrawn they ceased to burn. A few feet were then sawn off horizontally, at that part which had suffered most from the flames, and afterward the same piece was spill longitudinally with steel wedges, in order to examine its condition.

The post was of pitch pine, about the most inflammable wood known, and yet after exposure for seven hours to fire, the fury of which could not be exceeded except in blast furnaces, it contained within a quantity of perfectly uninjured and apparently fresh wood, probably capable of supporting the whole weight which the original post was designed to carry. Immediately after the saw cut, and again after the cleaving with steel wedges, the centre was carefully examined, and found to be just perceptibly warm to the touch, but nothing more, thus proving that the fibre, in which the strength lay, was quite uninjured.





<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

 OUR thanks are due to Messrs. <firm>Merchant & Co., </firm>of Philadelphia, for a series of handsome photogravure plates

showing perspective and sectional views of the celebrated Eiffel tower at Paris, made from photographs taken during Mr. Merchant's recent visit to the Paris Exposition.

We have received from the publisher, Mr. <person>M. T. Richardson</person>, New York, a copy of his book entitled "Practical Blacksmithing." Notwithstanding the fact that every village and hamlet in the civilized world contains a blacksmith, and has ever since mankind learned the various uses of iron and steel, nobody has ever written a book on the art of Blacksmithing. A chapter has now and then appeared in works on mechanics, but these comprise the extent of the world' printed knowledge of an art without which mankind would relapse into barbarism. The present work is a compilation of practical articles which have appeared during the last ten years in the columns of The Blacksmith and Wheelwright. Ancient Blacksmithing and primitive tools are considered briefly and then plans of shops, chimney building, forges, and descriptions of a great variety of tools are given. The illustrations are numerous, and the book would appear to be of great value to all workers of iron.



Subscribe for the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

