	<doctype type="text">100	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	September, 1889



author, and the author's name, nom de plume and full address, enclosed in sealed envelope, must accompany each drawing sent in.

All drawings must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, 14 King St. West, Toronto, on or before the 1st day of November next.

We reserve the right to publish any design sent in.

A committee appointed by the Architectural Guild of Toronto will decide the merits of the various designs.

Drawings will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the committee has given its decision.





<article title="Our Illustrations" author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

HOUSE FOR MR. <person>J. H BENNET</person>, BARRIE—<firm>EDWARDS & WEBSTER</firm>, ARCHITECTS	TORONTO.



T

HE materials are red brick with shingle gables and roof. On the ground floor are a large square hail, a drawing room, dining room, "den" and kitchen. The first floor contains a sewing room, opening on the balcony, and four bed rooms and a bath room. Three of the bed rooms average 14 ft x 16 ft. The attic can be utilized for three more bed rooms of good size and a store room. Hot water heating and the latest improvements in sanitary plumbing.



SUMMER CLUB HOUSE FOR THE "<building>ROYAL NOVA SCOTIA YACHT SQUADRON</building>," HALIFAX.—MESSRS. EDWARDS & WEBSTER, ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.



This little building, though intended for summer use only, is very substantially built. The material is frame on a foundation of brick piers. The exterior walls are covered with stained shingles laid in straight lines 3 1/2 inches to the weather. This gives a more quiet and architectural effect than where the shingles are cut as has been the fashion of late years. The color of the walls is a brick red, and that of the roof sea-green. The trimmings are yellow and green, and the window sash white. Inside the walls are lined with clear pine and varnished.

The entrance faces the street, and as the view is taken from the water front, very little of the porch is seen in the sketch. The club room occupies two-thirds of the first floor of the building and opens on the balcony. There is a large brick fireplace with built-in seats, etc. The windows of this room are filled with amber tinted, wrinkled glass. There is also a Secretary's office and a locker room on this floor. The ground floor contains lavatories and one large store room. The janitor is well provided for in the attic.



MEASURED DRAWINGS COMPETITION OF THE TORONTO



ARCHITECTURAL GUILD—" THE EASTERN ENTRANCE



OF TORONTO UNIVERSITY,"—PRIZE DRAWING



BY MR. <person>E. WILBY</person>, TORONTO.







<article title="Manual Training" author="">MANUAL TRAINING.

T

HE subject of industrial education has been brought prominently before the public by the opening last week of a Manual Training School in connection with Woodstock College, at Woodstock, Ont. During the last six years many such schools have been established in various parts of the States, notably in New York City, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Toledo, Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans. These schools are all more or less intimately connected with high schools or colleges in which the student receives training during part of the day in the ordinary branches of a liberal education.

A brief description of the Woodstock School, the first to be established in Canada, will undoubtedly be of interest to our readers. A brick building, two and a half stories high, 32 by 8o ft., thoroughly lighted, has been erected. On the first floor is a ten horse power gas engine, connected with suitable line shafting to drive a combination planer, moulder and matcher, a combination rip and cross-cut circular saw, a large 20 inch wood lathe and a scroll saw, in the wood turning department ; a scroll lathe, a planer, an emery wheel and a milling machine, with gear cutting attachments, in the iron working department ; a forge and anvil in the blacksmith department, to which many more will he

added as soon as the first class reach that stage in their course. On the second floor are benches and very complete kits of carpenters' tools, for a class of twenty. During the winter a dozen wood lathes will be fitted up. A roomy attic is used for storage.

Regularly the class will spend the day until three p.m. in the college class rooms, and from three to five in the Manual Training School. They begin with carpentry, proceed to wood turning, wood carving, forging, and machine work, through a four years' course. From the beginning, drawing will form an important feature of the course. Every piece of work attempted, be it small or large, must be fully and accurately drawn to scale. No expectation of deriving any revenue from the sale of manufactured articles is entertained. The object is to utilize tools, machinery and material in the education of the practical side of the boy. In the morning the pupil is discussing the theoretical side, in the afternoon the practical in the morning he investigates principles in the abstract, in the afternoon he applies those principles to the concrete, the wood, stone or metal.

The object is not to teach a trade, but to give an all round and practical education. At the same time the pupil will gain some degree of dexterity in the use of both wood-working and iron-working tools, some considerable ability to express any thought by means of the draughstman's pencil, and to interpret drawings, a fair knowledge of woods and metals, which will be of the greatest value to him in after life. Should he afterwards enter a factory, his intelligence and knowledge of principles would soon advance him from the bench to the position of foreman, and from the position of foreman to that of master. Brains are in demand in our shops.

Persons wishing further information about the manual training department of Woodstock College will obtain it by addressing the Principal, <person>W. H. Huston</person>, M. A., or <person>N. Wolverton</person>, B. A., the Superintendent of the Manual Training Course.



<article title="Rights of Architects" author="">RIGHTS OF ARCHITECTS.

A

T the International Congress of Architects, Rouen, the Secretary <person>M. Lucas</person>, introduced the following, defining the rights of the profession

1. The architect ought to possess the same right of controlling the reproduction or copying of his architectural work that is possessed by the painter, the sculptor and all other artists.

2. The architect, like every other artist, should reserve to himself the exclusive right to reproduce, or authorize the reproduction of his work ; and any law which might be made in favor of the protection of any artist, should apply to the architect.

3. Any architect who had conceived a plan of an edifice or directed its erection should have the right to inscribe upon it his name and profession.



<article title="Brick for Street Pavement" author="">BRICK FOR STREET PAVEMENT.



A CORRESPONDENT of Science states that about 50 towns in the  United States use brick for paving the streets, and some have used it for as long as 15 years. Common building brick is quite unfit for the



purpose, as it soon shows the effects of wear, but good hard brick always gives satisfaction. No paving material is equal to it except granite blocks, and it costs only a third of the latter. The most suitable bricks are those made from the common yellow joint clay, having a large percentage of silicate and iron. The laying of a brick pavement, the writer says, is a simple matter. The foundation being brought to the proper grade, there is spread over it 6 in. of gravel or sand, which is struck off with a board gauge fitted for the grade of the street. A course of brick is then laid on the flat surface, running lengthways along the streets. It is not necessary that this should be as hard as the upper course. Over this an inch of screened sand is spread, gauged. and properly smoothed off. The top course is then laid with the bricks on their edges lengthways across the street, the joints being broken in both courses. The whole is covered with an inch of screened sand, which is swept into the crevices. A roller weighing five or six tons is then passed over the pavement several times, and if this is properly done the pavement will be as smooth as one of wood, and almost as noiseless. The street must be drained, as the lasting qualities of the brick and the even surface of the street depend greatly on the drainage. The upper course should be very hard and of vitrified brick. Horses do not slip or fall on brick pavements, owing to the small surface between the seams. If water and frost are kept out of brick the pavement is almost indestructible.

