

<doctype type="text">carried on iron girders which in turn derived their support from iron columns resting on stone piers about 2 1/2 feet square. The face of these piers coincided with the face of the wall above, bringing the whole weight on their outer edge. To make matters worse, the columns were about ten inches too short, the deficiency being made up by cubes of stone no larger than the base of the columns, about ten to twelve inches. The weight had depressed the cap-stones covering the piers till they were quite 1 1/2" out of level, and the lapse of a few hours would probably have seen the sliding off or tilting of the small base-stones, the collapse of the wall and possible loss of life, a large number of workmen being employed on the building at the time. Immediate measures were taken to prevent a catastrophe. A continuation of the same wall was carried upon an old one-storey erection, the wall of which was cut by a doorway about nine feet wide and three windows of ordinary width. The door was at one end of the building, having but a 14 inch pier at the outer end and an 18 inch pier at the other side. The piers between the windows were about 2 1/2 feet wide, the thickness being a brick and a half. One of the smaller piers had begun to shatter, and only prompt measures prevented a probable disaster.



H

AS it ever occurred to an architect to contrast his and his clients' relations with the relations that subsist between the lawyer and his client, or with those of the physician and his patient? A lawyer's client, as a rule, submits implicitly to the judgment of his professional adviser, while a sick man will not think of hiding the merest symptom when he asks the advice of his physician, knowing full well that he cannot be intelligently prescribed for unless he gives the doctor his fullest confidence. Frequently the man or woman about to build seems to have the impression that their architect is possessed of the spirit of divination, an impression that is liable to be rudely knocked on the head about the time the stairs are in a sufficiently forward condition for the man and his wife to prowl around, and pick and tear limb from limb (so to speak) the unfortunate and absent architect. The architect will probably have the scene depicted to him on his next visit by a grinning foreman who, if inclined to be spiteful, will add little variations of his own concocting. But seriously, architects are inclined to take too many things for granted. The only safe rule is to discuss the minutest matters of requirement, and to put all decisions in writing for future reference or confirmation—then such remarks of the client as "I understood I was to have such and such a thing," can be met by confronting him with the record. It would also be a wise precaution to have the matter of the ownership of the plans understood from the outset, as well as the percentage to be charged. If the architect has a delicacy about mentioning such matters, it is an easy matter to have a condensed tariff printed, containing also the accepted professional practice, and which could be either handed to the client or sent to him in the course of the earlier correspondence. Many a law suit, lost time and temper, would be avoided by careful observance of these points.



W

E have little faith in the result of the efforts which are being made in Toronto and Montreal to substitute day labor for the contract system in the construction of public works. The experience of leading American cities, as set forth under the heading, "Contract vs. Day Labor" in the present number, is on the whole strongly in favor of the time honored system of inviting competition amongst contractors for the performance of such work. It is contrary to reason to assume that it can be done cheaper by day labor than by contract. The contractor whose capital is at stake in his undertakings is acting under an incentive to see the work expeditiously performed, which is entirely lacking in the case of civic employees, who know that their remuneration will be the same whether they exert themselves much or little. As to the quality of the work, the city has the power by means of properly drawn specifications, competent and honest inspection, and a sufficient forfeit to be required from the contractor for non-fulfilment of contract, to secure for the ratepayers under the contract system the best as well as the cheapest service. The unsatisfactory results of the day labor system appear to be already making themselves felt in the city of Montreal,

where a deputation of property owners recently waited on the Council and asked that the assessment made upon them for a certain drain built by day's work be reduced to the same figure as if it had all been done by contract. They alleged that the day's work had been more expensive than necessary in consequence of the work not being properly done. It is not difficult to understand the favor which is accorded to the day labor system by many of the aldermen who are naturally desirous of making themselves "solid" with the "labor vote" in view of the near approach of election day. It is a significant fact, however, that the gentleman who for many years was chairman of the Board of Works, of Toronto, and was himself formerly a contractor, recognizes that the interests of the citizens would be better served by the contract system. Such an opinion, coming as the result of long practical experience from a gentleman whose integrity is beyond question, and supported by the experience of the Engineers of the leading cities across the line, leaves little room to doubt the wisdom of a return to the system of executing public works by contract. Concerning the purchase of materials and supplies, we believe every argument is in favor of doing so by public tender as opposed to placing such an immense patronage in the hands of heads of departments.



T

HE Twenty-Fourth Convention of the <assoc>American Institute of Architects </assoc>held its sessions in Washington, D. C., Oct. 22 to 24, inclusive. The discussions were interesting and animated, while the utmost good-fellowship prevailed. Between 90 and 100 members were present. According to the roll call, it appears as though four or five of the visitors included their wives as members, though there is no record of the ladies having spoken or voted. The President, Mr. <person>R. M. Hunt</person>, was unfortunately absent through illness, and his address was read by proxy. It was a carefully prepared paper, and ought to be read by all members of the profession. Mr. <person>L. C. Sullivan </person>made a peculiar report for the committee on a code of ethics in which he declined to submit a definite code, alleging as a reason that the elements of the Institute were of rather a mixed character at present, partly owing to the absorption of the Western Association, urging, however, that the topic be kept constantly in mind Perhaps the most important report was that of a committee on Clerk of Works. The three points enunciated deserve to be put strongly before the public, and the legal profession particularly, viz.: First, that an architect offers and is paid for only a certain limited kind of superintendence ; second, that it is to the interest of the employer in many cases to pay for constant detailed superintendence ; third, that the architect is in no sense a contractor, nor is he responsible for the contractor's misdoings, and that the commissions usually paid would be utterly insufficient for any such services or responsibilities even if they were desirable. The committee further recommends that in order to keep this matter constantly before the attention of clients, a clause be inserted in the schedule of fees giving the rates at which clerks of works would be supplied, In the matter of uniform contracts, the feeling of the convention seemed to be in favor of a further trial of the present form, which had proved on the whole satisfactory. A committee was appointed to confer with the <assoc>Builders' Association</assoc>, the Board of Underwriters and the <assoc>Association of Building Inspectors</assoc>, in reference to the method to be pursued in draughting a model building ordinance. We hope our own Association will take hold of the same problem and deal with it vigorously, as we are much behind the times in our regulations as to safe building. The President's address referred to the incorporation of the <assoc>Institute of Architects of New South Wales</assoc>, but strange to say, he loses sight of the fact that an organization nearer home, the Ontario Association has likewise been incorporated this year, and we believe is the first Association of the kind to be thus legalized.



The gentlemen appointed to judge the plans in the above competition, Messrs. <person>E. E. Tache </person>and <person>H. Staveley</person>, Quebec, and <person>Victor Roy</person>, of Montreal, have reported in favor of the following awards 1st prize, $1,500, to <person>Mr. Charest</person>, Quebec 2nd, $1,000, to <firm>C. K. Porter & Son</firm>, Buffalo; 3rd, $500, <person>J. F. Peachy</person>, Quebec.

