January, 1890

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



 <doctype type="text">and pretty tints, which lines and tints might have been found or invented apart from them, were man's mind more creative than it is—that is decorative art.

Consider stained glass. The most magnificent windows I have ever seen have been produced now and here—now in the fourth quarter of the nineteenth century, and in inartistic and half civilized America. But they have been the productions of highly trained, highly ambitious, highly paid artists. When they are compared with even fine ancient glass, the ancient glass suffers. There are windows here in America that beat the windows of the <building>Saint Chapelle</building>; yes, or those of <building>Fairford Church</building>; yes, or those of the Reims; not as decorative art, of course, but in splendor and interest, as a consummate painting by a master surpasses a piece of Tarsia or a Chinese enamel. For the American windows are elaborate pictures, for which prices, enormous and yet inadequate, have been paid. And into each of them the artist has put his whole accumulated strength of knowledge, and has avoided no care nor patient preparation. They differ radically from paintings on canvas or plaster, else they would not be good, because light-transmitting color and design is a very different affair from opaque and light-reflecting color and design; but the one equally with the other is expressional art in the first place, and decorative art only in the sense that anything lovely is a decoration.

Consider mosaic. Of that we cannot be so sure, because modern mosaic has not succeeded as yet. It may be that the limitations are such that only decorative art can be achieved in mosaic. If so, we may be sure that modern mosaic will not succeed, and that the medium will be used only by archaeologically minded architects, ecclesiologists and the like, and those enemies of their kind who restore ancient buildings. Apart from these, mosaic will be tried by and by in earnest, as glass has been ; either it will be found capable of being treated for expressional art, or it will be abandoned. Of such decorative treatment of the draped and crowned and jeweled human figure as we have left us in San Vital, or San Apollinare, or San Marco, no modern, working otherwise than as a mere copyist or adapter, is at all capable.

Consider wall painting. Send the mind to Assisi, to the <building>Riccardi Chapel</building>, whither you please. Recall the painted splendors there, and compare the more ancient with the more recent. The older are the more conventionalized, because the artist could not so well represent nature nor express his thoughts. <person>Raphael </person>painted in <building>the Vatican </building>and Pinturicchio at Sienna, and even Giulio Romano at Mantua, on plaster, as well as they knew how, with as complete realization as their materials allowed them exactly as Tintoretto painted on canvas at the school of San Rocco, And so our modern painting will be done. So it is being done to-day. The wonderful borders of the pictured panels at Assisi, and such checkered and intertwined patterns as those at Lodi or Vercelli are out of our reach, as comparatively impossible to us as an Indian shawl. But we can get the pictured panels; we must pay pretty well for them, indeed, but what is ten thousand dollars, more or less, when New York has to fill a church wall.

Never mind now the question of fresco or oil, water glass, spirit varnish, encaustic and the rest; the question whether wall painting can be made to endure gas and furnace heat and sudden changes of temperature and changes of humidity. If we Americans have an atrocious climate, we are thought to have the intelligence to wrestle with it; when we need to protect our wall paintings, because we have some to protect, we shall find ways and means. Never mind these questions, the vital, the interesting question is this, whether if we provide walls and demand realized and complete painting for them, the painting will come. And we need have no doubt that it will come abundantly, freely and cheaper than we can now imagine it to be, as the painters get their hands in.

With all this we can see whither we are being led. The architecture of the future is not to be Gothic ; nor is it to be Romanesque, nor French Renaissance, nor any style which demands decorative sculpture and is poor and nude without it. The mass of our future building is to be simple, heavy, massive, comparative1y unorganized; perhaps not a mere torpid pon

derosity calculated only to shelter us and to afford a background for the work of our artists, but something in that way. Cut stone, which has already nearly vanished from among our industries, is to become a tradition. Terra cotta is to cease imitating stone, and to become a means of carrying our bas reliefs and fully realized sculptures of all kinds, in a material which can bear the weather. Moldings I think we may keep, if we choose to, though it may be that the tendency of our budding will be to forget them, to ignore them as no longer a part of an architectural programme. Columns we shall keep merely for the sake of the beautiful material of which the shafts can be made. Capitals indeed may be sculptured, but they are more likely to become blocks of some beautiful stone, prettily contrasting with the shafts, or hollow bronze baskets, or rings from which will project the bulbs of the electric lights. Arches will be of any shape that comes handy, and built anyhow, segmental and basket-handle shaped when there is little room, fantastically oriental in curve where there is space enough. Scientific construction will be only interesting in so far as it is economical and saves our money for the more artistic work which needs it so much.

Beauty of proportion will remain to us only so far as it is easy to secure in the simplest masses, only in a general harmony of relative width and height, length and breadth; and in openings somewhere near their true relation to one another and to the wall surfaces that surround them. Elaborately organized building will cease, and in this way something will be done toward cutting down the monstrous cost of modern work. Our work will cease to be northern, and will become like that of Sicily or the south of France, where materials, no matter what nature so long as they are hard and heavy, are encrusted in the solid shell of mortar. The vault will be non-elastic, unyielding, a solid eggshell, as it was under the Roman Empire. The whole will be built up by aggregations of concrete in wooden molds, with the thinner walls of brick as they are with us to-day.

The problems for the constructor thus simplified, and those of the decorative designer given up, as beyond our strength, the architect will become an organizer, a distributor of the work of the painter and sculptor ; providing the well exposed, well lighted wall surface for the one ; and for the other the salient angles and dusky niches which his statuary needs, and the sunny and sheltered nooks which his bas reliefs require. Nor is this so sad a prospect. There is no need to despair of architecture because we can no longer work as they worked in the sixteenth century. There is to be a Protestant Cathedral in New York, and we know that if it is to be a Gothic structure, it will be a failure, and less beautiful than the bare hill on which it is to be placed. The combined talent of the closing years of the nineteenth century is not capable of producing a Gothic cathedral; but suppose that the programme was to be like this: Vast and well proportioned vaults like those of the <building>Basilica of Maxentius</building>, covered with mosaic, of gold, as in San Marco, or of green and blue, peacock fashion, as at Ravenna, with groups or a frieze of figure subject at or above the springing line; the walls below smoothly sheathed with semi-precious stones, like, again, San Marco, where the slabs are set edge to edge without molding or border, and are reversed as to grain, exactly as we treat veneers to make a natural pattern; the columns of whatever beautiful stone we decide to employ; we don't know yet what we can find, but there are plenty, if we do not ask—as we shall not ask— for strength. The capitals may be prettily shaped lumps of the same or kindred material, or may be groups of figure sculpture, something as are those of Milan, the best thing there is about that hideous church. The floor to be Opus Alexandrinum; so much ornamental design as will lay out a pattern of circles and triangles, I suppose we must allow. And along the walls at the best height for examination and the best point for lighting, we will have a belt, ten or twelve feet wide, and hundreds of feet long, filled with wall painting of fully realized character, naturalistic as, say, the work of <person>Paul Veronese</person>, the king of wall painters, the model man, the great adept, the one who has best known how to make a vast composition permanently splendid to the eye. Incrusted in the marble or alabaster of the wall will be the bas reliefs of religious or historical or emblematical subject. And statuary will be abundantly used, either set free between the piers, as at Orvieto, or ranged on each side of a nave or aisle or choir, as at Innsbruck, or, as one had rather see it, perhaps, so clustered around the greater piers, as of the entrance to the sanctuary, or those which carry the dome or tower, that it may seem to help to make up their mass and weight, and give character to what would be otherwise very severe, very square, very naked indeed.

