<doctype type="colophon">VOL. 111.—No. XII.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, DECEMBER,	PRICE 20 CENTS

		 $2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	- TORONTO, CANADA.

TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL.





SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward news. paper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The "Canadian Architect and Builder" is the official paper of the Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec.



The publisher desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.





CLOSE OF VOL. III.

T ITH the present number the CANADIAN ARCHITECT

W

 AND BUILDER completes its third yearly volume. To mark the occasion we have sought to make this number one of more than ordinary interest. The year which is about closing has been, so far as this journal is concerned, one of steady progress. The weekly intermediate edition for contractors commenced in February last, has been well received, and has been the means of substantially increasing the number of subscribers and advertisers, thus becoming one of the most important factors in the journal's success.

Our thanks are due to those architects, engineers, and others who have made it their medium of communication with contractors, and by doing so have assisted in making the paper valuable. It will take time to make this edition all that we desire it to be, but every week progress is being made, and the facilities for obtaining advance information improved. Contractors may therefore expect each issue for the new year to prove increasingly valuable.

It is the purpose to increase the number of illustrations and in other particulars to further improve the regular edition. In the short period of three years the number of illustrations has been doubled. The rate of improvement in the future must depend, as in the past, on the measure of support accorded the efforts of the publisher. Friends of the paper are requested not to lose sight of the fact that by exerting an active influence on its behalf, they can materially assist it to attain to a higher standard of excellence and value. There are various ways in which this assistance may be given, one of which is by referring to our advertising pages when requiring materials of any kind. These pages now form the most complete reference list obtainable of materials entering into architectural and engineering works, and as a rule, we believe the advertisers to be reliable. We have heard of an instance or two where an architect spent hours of valuable time and physical exertion in seeking to find where he might purchase certain articles which reference to the advertising department of this journal would have rendered unnecessary. We simply mention the fact in order to prevent its recurrence. Advertisers naturally desire to know that benefit has accrued to them from their advertisements. The publisher is also a partaker in this desire, since upon its fulfilment depends largely the extent of his advertising patronage. We therefore ask friends of this journal not only to make use of the advertisements appearing in it, but also in their correspondence with advertisers to mention it as the source of their information.

We fully appreciate the liberal use made of the advertising department of the paper. Commencing the new year with nearly double the number of subscribers appearing on our books at the close of 1889, we can offer advertisers in 1891 a wide and constantly widening constituency, with the benefits accruing therefrom.

We hope that increased use will be made of the columns of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for the expression of opinions on subjects coming legitimately within its scope. Finally we extend to every reader the wish for a " Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.



T

HE plumbing regulations of Toronto are continually being tampered with. One of the latest fads is the adoption for business premises of the New York method of placing the opening of the fresh air inlet in the sidewalk, the orifice being protected by a cast iron grating set flush with the pavement. During a recent visit to that city we examined the condition of these gratings, and found the majority of them either practically or entirely closed by accumulations of dust. Even supposing these gratings to be kept free, the constant dropping of dirt into the pipe beneath would result in the eventual stoppage at the bend, which in 99 out of 100 cases is found necessary in carrying the pipe to the connection behind the main trap. In some cases a sort of small iron sink is placed beneath the grating with the connecting pipe entering the side a couple of inches above the bottom. Even this device would soon choke up with sweepings, and in winter with snow, which, freezing, would completely block the office. We would a thousand times prefer the omission of the main trap than be compelled to use this unreliable device.





THE amended building ordinance of the city of Hamilton is,  on the whole, a step in the right direction. The clause

requiring the lodgment of plans with the Building Inspector will be the cause of considerable labor to the architect and expense to the client, if such plans, or copies thereof, are to be retained by the Inspector. The regulations limiting the proportion of the width of street which may be occupied, are good, as is also the stipulation that permission must be obtained from the occupant of adjoining premises before any material may be deposited in front of his property. The provision relating to the keeping of lights on all piles of building materials as well as excavations for drains, etc., is almost too sweeping in its nature, and yet, considering the careless manner in which heaps of building material and rubbish are left by the workmen, it is really a necessity. The fencing in of all building operations is also a necessity. It is simply abominable to have to run the gauntlet of splashing lime, swaying lumber and dropping bricks, which is so often the experience of passers by. It would be of interest to know what are the requirements referred to as Sec. 7. Chap. 41, regarding the erection and character of the buildings. These requirements are, in most of our cities, of a very low grade and far behind the times. We were surprised the other day to find that the Toronto by-laws had been amended to prohibit wooden breast-summers at shop fronts, requiring the substitution of rolled iron. Was there ever a more stupid regulation? In the case of a serious fire the un

