<doctype type="text;ad">128 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	November, 1890



most pediments, it is clear that the best works of art cannot be viewed appreciatively from such distances, and that first-class sculpture ought to be placed nearer to the eye. The employment of any sculpture other than first-class is here assumed to be out of the question. We can better afford to dispense with all decorative accessories than to display the limits of our capabilities; and, perhaps, modem architecture might be improved if it were to be made more suggestive of reserve power. It is certain that multiplicity greatly detracts from the effectiveness of figure sculpture, however good it may be. Architecture gains in grandeur by a multiplicity of parts, within certain limits. This frequently necessitates exact repetitions of the same form, as, for example, in a colonnade. An observer is not wearied or perplexed by the contemplation of a row of columns all alike, because he does not feel called upon to examine each particular one. But in figure sculpture a repetition of the same form would be ridiculous, while a multiplicity of forms, all differing slightly, and each claiming special attention, would be tiresome in the extreme.

If figures in a pediment are generally too high to be properly seen, the same is true of figures which are perched upon the summit of a lofty entablature, as upon the arch of Constantine. The architects of the Renaissance sinned worse than the Romans in this respect when they planted human figures upon the highest parts of their buildings, where the Mediaevalists might have placed pinnacles, and sometimes even perched them upon the apex of a pediment. The figures upon <building>St. Peter's at Rome </building>and <building>St. Paul's in London </building>seem to be balancing themselves with some difficulty upon ridiculously narrow pedestals, as if they were anxiously awaiting the arrival of ladders by which to escape from their perilous positions. The disadvantages of placing figures at such heights should be obvious; yet the practice is often met with in the present day. Not only are the figures foreshortened, but the difficulty of providing them with suitable pedestals is practically insurmountable, If the pedestal be broad enough to convey the impression of safety and stability it will have the effect of cutting off a considerable portion of the figure, while if it be made narrow enough to intercept the view, the figure will appear to be in danger of falling. The disquieting impression of instability is greatly obviated when the figures have an attic storey behind them, instead of being marked off against the sky. Thus, apart from the question of height, the arrangement adopted upon the arch of Constantine is not inappropriate. But surely if the post of honor is to be reserved for figure sculpture, its proper situation is so near the eye that its beauties can be effectively seen without any distortation. It is strange that the Mediaevalists, whose representation of the figure were so inferior to those of the Greeks, should have displayed so much reverence for the human form that they took care to enshrine it within niches supported upon corbelled pedestals and overtopped with riebly designed canopies They rarely placed their sculpture too high to be adequately seen, apparently recognizing that the place of honor is not necessarily the biggest part of a building, and that works of art which are intended to command special attention require to be framed and protected The worst solecism in Gothic art consisted in placing a series of superimposed figures on each side of an arched doorway, as in certain foreign examples, the figures being so arranged as to follow the curves of the pointed arch, so that the upper ones leaned over and appeared in danger of falling. The Renaissance architects never did anything half so bad as this, while their tastefully designed pedimented niches were quite as satisfactory in their way as the crocketted canopies of the Gothic artists.

The architect should surely have a word to say as to the treatment of the figure sculpture which is to adorn his building. In these days of departmental craftsmanship, when each artist is striving to excel in his own special branch of activity, there is some danger that the spirit of unity—which should pervade every great architectural work as a whole—may here and there fall into abeyance. If it is important that ornamental sculpture of an architectural character should be subordinated to figure sculpture, it is still more important that the figure sculpture, which is, after all, only a decorative accessory, should be so designed as to harmonize with the proportions of the building, besides assisting to express its purpose. It is evident that figures which are greater than life-size tend to dwarf a building. because an observer naturally supposes the figures to be smaller than they actually are, and gauges the adjacent details accordingly. The question for the architect to decide is, whether he wishes to impart an appearance of size to his building or to the statuary associated with it. If the tormer, the simplest plan is, if possible, to keep the figures down to life-size. This enables us to make the parts of our building larger than we could otherwise venture to do, supposing the figure sculpture to be sufficiently plentiful and evenly distributed to preserve the scale throughout. On the other hand. if it be desired to give an appearance of size to the figures, we may do so by subduing the sizes of the subsidiary parts of the building, always remembering that when figures are very much larger than life-size, they dwarf a building in a far less degree than when they are only a little larger. In the case of a small

building in connection with a colossal statue, let the doors, windows, and other parts be slightly reduced in scale, and both building and statue will gain immensely by it.

In considering the relation between figure sculpture and architectural ornament, we are naturally led to attempt the definition of some boundary between the two. There are instances of figure sculpture in friezes and in similar situations where it is so closely in connection with foliated ornament that both are only parts of the same design. The case of detached statuary is totally different; and we should guard against any decorative confusion between such figure sculpture and its architectural accessories. Suppose. for example, that we have a statue of a military hero standing upon a pedestal with an enemy's flag lying at his feet, the entire composition being sculptured from one block of marble. Everyone will agree that the pedestal should be so designed as to harmonize with the statue, and it might contain sculptured war trophies, or representations of battle scenes, in relief. But if the folds of the flag were allowed to droop over the surbase of the pedestal, it is here contended that the treatment would be wrong. The object of the sculptor should be, not to represent a man in the act of posing upon a pedestal, but to produce a representation which may be placed upon a pedestal, or which may have a pedestal attached to it. Upon a similar principle, it is maintained that sculptured ornament which is contained in a panel surrounded with a frame of mouldings should never be allowed to stray beyond its boundaries. Neither drapery nor foilage should be permitted to overlap the mouldings lying outside the design. Foilage may overlap mouldings, but only as an enrichment, which is a part of the same design with the mouldings themselves. Modern French architects are continually transgressing this rule, and although they can often do so with pleasing results, yet experience has shown that such licentious practices sooner or later bring about a reaction in favor of a more severe treatment. Some of the most tasteful of modern French designs for monumental sculpture are, in our opinion, spoilt by naturalistic representations of climbing plants twined irregularly about the rigidly severe stone or marble crosses of which they form an incongruous part. While referring to monumental sculpture, attention may be drawn to the very low standard of art which holds its ground in this country in connection with this branch of design. The art seems to be in the hands of men who, with few exceptions, can only gratify the uncultured taste of the general public, without attempting to elevate or improve it. It is greatly to be wished that architects would turn their attention more frequently to this department of their art

Architectural sculptured ornament must necessarily take a lower rank than detached statuary or figure subjects executed in relief. Yet its design must necessarily be governed by similar principles The tendency towards realism in foliated sculpture is a prelude either to decay or reaction. Conventionalism, in sculptured foilage, is far more essential than in figure sculpture, especially when, as is usually the case, symmetry has to be studied. The subject of foliated ornament is a large one, and the limits of our, space preclude its being exhaustively treated here. There are, however, a few leading principles which may be briefly noticed as apparently gaining recognition amongst modern designers. One rule often observed now, though frequently neglected in the past, is to avoid placing foliated ornament at the external angle of a building, where it is held to detract from the apparent stability. This leads us to an observation regarding supporting members decorated with sculptured foilage. It has been stated, in reference to Caryatides, that no natural object should be represented in sculpture as perform-any functions which it could not fulfil if real. In applying this principle to sculptured foilage, we need not shrink from the conclusion that a sculptured leaf ought not to be represented as supporting a load which could not be sustained by a natural leaf. In foliated caps, trusses, or other supporting members, it s here maintained that the structural forms should not exist complete in solid stone, whether concealed by the foilage or not Although the whole be carved from one block, yet the foilage should be, so to speak, applied, in so far that the structure forms beneath are not cut into in carving the leaves. This rule has often been infringed, but never, we think, with propriety. Undoubtedly, one of the chief difficulties in the external application of sculptured foilage to architecture consists in a right adjustment of scale in relation to the various parts and their situations While it is essential to impart a robust character to the lower part of a building, the upper portions being treated with a lighter style of decoration, yet the lower part, being nearer to the eye, demands greater multiplicity and refinement of details. To satisfy the eye of a close observer in the lower part of an edifice, without breaking up the breadth of effect at a distance; to make the upper portion appear lighter than the lower, while its ornamentation is in reality bolder—this is one of the most difficult problems which an architect is called upon to solve, and its difficulty is enhanced in the exceptionally lofty buildings which the increasing value of town sites makes it incumbent upon us to erect Fortunately there is no lack of artistic workmanship at command. We have men around us who seem fully equal to the tasks imposed upon them by the exacting conditions of modern work: and in spite of all that may be said in disparagement of the English architecture of today, we may look with confidence to a future that promises to make the Victorian age worthy to compare with any architectural epoch since the Reformation.—Specialities.



<assoc>QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHI

TECTS.

</assoc>The first meeting of the Council of the Quebec Association of Architects was held a few days ago, when a number of applications for membership were received.

<firm>G. & J. E. GRIMSON</firm>,

39 University ST., MONTREAL.



STAINED, PAINTED & DECORATIVE



EMBOSSED CLASS

For Church and Domestic Purposes.

-	Estimates given for all work at low prices, according to design and finish.

HAMILTON ART STAINED CLASS WORKS

MANUFACTURERS OF



Church and Domestic Stained Glass.

LEAD GLAZING AND SAND CUT A SPECIALTY.





<firm>H. LONGHURST & CO</firm>.,

16 JOHN STREET N.	-	HAMILTON.

