<doctype type="text">NOVEMBER, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	127



achieve more than has been in the past. It is sometimes said that architecture has not progressed during the last three hundred years it ought rather to be said that the opportunities for architectural display have not progressed. This is an utilitarian age: one in which quantity is, too often, placed before quality. Let us aim at working in the line which the age demands, and yet endeavor so to use our opportunities that permanent and lasting results will be seen, results which will make the nonprofessional man see the advantages of education and training, and hasten the recognition of the fact that none but trained and skilled architects should be allowed to design the homes and public buildings of a country so great as this is.

Let us not aim at that which is new for its own sake, remembering that "there is nothing new under the sun," but rather aim at producing that which we are certain will be pleasing and useful, although it may be something in a beaten and well trodden path. __________________





<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

T

HE principal interest amongst the architects of late here has been the proposed formation of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. That meetings of the architects, if conducted in the proper spirit, will tend to elevate the profession there is not a doubt, It is to be hoped that our architects will not attempt too much, but will be content with the formation of a society resembling that of the Institute of British Architects, of England, and not try to create a close corporation of architects for the Province of Quebec. Chairs of architecture in our colleges and schools of art should undoubtedly he encouraged, if we wish to raise the standard of the architectural profession in the Province of Quebec, for it is an admitted fact that no practicing architect has the time even had he the wish, to devote to the education of his pupils and attend to his own business.

<building>BOARD OF TRADE BUILDING MOntreal</building>.

Rumor has it that the Board of Trade are about to call for competition plans for the erection of their proposed new building, It is said, but I can scarcely believe it, that the Board has decided to invite five American architects to compete, each of whom is to receive $300 for the plans submitted and that a prize of $300 is to be offered for the best three sets of plans submitted by Canada The conditions are not published yet, so It is perhaps a little premature to comment too harshly until the conditions are made public, but surely the Canadian architects can at least hope for better treatment at the hands of a Canadian Board of Trade.

REAL ESTATE.

Real estate during the last month has been fairly active and the prospects of a good fall and winter business are encouraging There were 151 transfers in the city proper and Cote St. Antoine during October, amounting to $512,500, which is slightly less than the corresponding month of last year: A Toronto syndicate has purchased the Decarrie farm at Montreal Junction and propose disposing of it in lots at once. Several solid brick houses have already been started by this syndicate on the adjoining property, and arrangements are in progress for drainage, water and gas. The money market has been rather tight, but lower rates of interest have assisted in making real estate investments popular.

The new <building>Feller Institute," at Grande Ligne, Que</building>., of which Mr. <person>Eric Mann</person>, of this city is the architect, has just been completed and occupied at a cost of about $27,000. The new centre wing is 68' front by 47' deep, entirely built of stone The front is of Scotch coursed ashlar and cut stone dressings of a fine close blue limestone found within two miles of the buildings The present side wing 85' long has been entirely remodelled, and the college fitted throughout with hot water heating by two of <firm>Warden King & Sons</firm>' largest boilers Water has been led to the buildings from a reservoir about eight hundred yards oft, through a 4" iron pipe, and has been found a complete success. The water rises by natural gravitation 6" over ground floor, thus supplying the basement and ground floor without pumping. The supply tanks for baths, washing, etc., is on upper fiat, contains altogether 8,000 gallons, and is pumped up by a patent hot air self-acting pump in basement. Gas is also laid through the entire buildings, generated by a

gas machine" built in the grounds outside. The hall and class room floors are laid with No. Georgia pitch pine, and the dining room is finished in clear pine battens, slightly stained and varnished The same architect has also finished the extensive additions to the <building>Methodist Church, Lacolle, Que</building>., and a new <building>Scotch church in Hemmingford</building>.

VISIT FROM MEMBERS OF THE IRON AND STEEL INSTITUTE.



During the past month Montreal has had the pleasure of entertaining the members of the Iron and Steel Association of Great Britain and Germany. The city tendered them a banquet at the <building>St. Lawrence Hall</building>, and our Harbor Commissioners gave them a trip through the Lachine Canal and down the rapids, stopping for about two hours at Caughnawaga, visiting the Indians and inspecting their handiwork, after which they inspected the improvements to our harbor at the foot of the current. Some people consider the money spent in entertaining our guests as useless extravagence, but it strikes me as one of the best investments the city has made during the year. Undoubtedly visits of such men as compose the Iron and Steel Institute do

immense good to the country at large. Let them see for themselves that our country is a prosperous one, and destined to play an important part in the commerce of the world, It will open their eyes to the fact that there is something else in Canada than snow and ice—scenes which our winter carnival has so largely advertised—that we can build railways. canals, bridges and factories, as well as ice palaces , that Canada is rich in minerals which only require development It will give confidence to capitalists to invest their money in our enterprises, and promote emigration of the right sort, not the kind known as assisted

<assoc>CANADIAN SOCITETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS



</assoc>The usual fortnightly meeting of the above society was held at its chambers on St. Catherine street last Thursday, when there was a fair attendance, and an interesting paper on the errors or defects in levels was read by <person>Prof. McLeod</person>, of McGill University.

COLLAPSE OF A BUILDING



A building on Vitre street in process of erection for D'Ouimet, collapsed on Thursday last and seriously injured two of the workmen That more were not killed is miraculous. As far as I can learn it was caused by carelessness or ignorance on the part of a workman who commenced to demolish an overhanging chimney. He began his work at the bottom instead of at the top, thereby causing the whole chimney to fall bodily, breaking the beams and joists and throwing down the building





 



 

Decoration and Furniture

<article title="The Accessories of Architecture Sculpture" author="Blacgrove, George H.">THE ACCESSORIES OF ARCHITECTURE.

SCULPTURE.



<person>GEORGE H BLAGROVE</person>.

AMONGST the purely ornamental accessories of architecture, we may

surely assign the post of paramount importance to sculpture, including under that term all representations of natural forms, whether in high or low relief, or in detached groups or single figures. Were we to attempt a classification of such forms as may be represented in sculpture, it will readily be conceded that the most complex of natural organisms, being regarded as highest in the scale of development, ought to occupy the foremost rank. Thus we should naturally be led to assign the first place to the human figure. and successive subsidiary places to animal and vegetable organisms in order of priority There are artificial forms, such as implements and weapons, which may here presented in sculpture, but the consideration of these may be reserved far the present. Starting with the assumption that the human figure is the highest form to be treated in sculpture. and that its application to architecture is therefore one of the first considerations in the art or science of ornamental design, it should strike us as somewhat strange that this subject has received so little attention from architects, not only in the present day, but in times past, or that those who have manifested exquisite taste in the proportions and decorations of buildings should have so frequently failed to appreciate the true relation between architecture and figure sculpture. This is a matter of no little importance to us in the present day, when architecture, discarding effete traditions, and flinging aside the trammels of precedent, is seeking to strike out an independent path of her own. If, animated by the new spirit which has been infusing itself into our art, we should set ourselves to formulate new principles for our future guidance in the disposition and treatment of architectural accessories, our first enquiry would be, What can we learn from the past? and, having satisfied ourselves upon this score, we might, after a careful examination of the new conditions under which we have to work, trust to our own sense of architectural propriety not to lead us astray In regard to sculpture, it may be inferred, on the principle that the greater includes the less, that when an architect has made up his mind as to the treatment and disposition of figure representations, he is not likely to fall into error in regard to subsidiary ornamentation. This may be true, but the converse by no means holds good, as already intimated.

The Greeks, who attained to the highest degree of excellence in the treatment of figure sculpture, committed grave errors in its application to architecture, though it may he said that they never erred in the arrangement of subsidiary ornament. The use of Caryatides has been condemned often enough, and modern architects are happily in no need of a warning against such a misapplication of the human form in sculpture. We may regard it as an accepted principle that no natural object should be represented in sculpture as performing any function which it could not fulfil if real. Thus, if the Caryatides had been living figures they could not have supported the loads placed upon them, and hence the incongruous effect resulting from their employment. The same principle in its application to foliated ornament will be considered further on Perhaps it is not quite so obvious that the Greeks did wrong when they placed figure sculpture in the tympanum of a pediment. A little consideration, however, should convince us that this is so. Surely, if the place of honor in decoration is to be assigned to the human form, the framework should be adapted to the figure, and not the figure to to the framework This being conceded, it is decidedly wrong to crowd the tympanum of a pediment with figures, as at the Parthenon, so that those near the extremities of the raking cornices have to be reduced in scale, or placed in recumbent positions. Moreover, considering the usual height of

