		'PRICE <doctype type="colophon">20 CENTS

VOL. 111.—No. X.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, CANADA, OCTOBER, 1890.	$2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

	(With - Weekly	Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT Record).



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	TORONTO, CANADA.

TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL.





 SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCMENTS. 

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



The "Canadian Architect and Builder" is the official paper of the Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec.



The publisher desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



I

 T is satisfactory to learn that the request of the company which proposes to pipe natural gas from wells on the Niagara peninsula to Buffalo and other places, for the admission duty free of pipe ordered from American manufacturers, will not be complied with. Why was not this pipe procured from Canadian manufacturers? The practice of sending abroad for that which is being produced at home, is one that ought to be discouraged by every person who desires to witness the development and prosperity of the Dominion.





T

HE <assoc>Master Plumbers' Association of Toronto </assoc>has been requested to appoint a committee to confer with the <assoc>Journeymen's Association </assoc>on subjects affecting the interests of both. The journeymen are desirous that means should be adopted regulating the number of apprentices and improvers, and that consideration should be given the question of extending the half holiday on Saturday throughout the year, the eight hour day proposal, and the desirability of fixing the maximum rate of wages at 30 cents per hour. The master plumbers have as yet taken no action in response to this request, but it is to be hoped a clear understanding will be arrived at before the new year opens, in order that all possibility of a difficulty arising in the spring may be avoided.





T

HE Medical Health Officer for the City of Toronto has resigned his position, and in doing so has undoubtedly served the citizens better than by continuing in office as the head of an important department without giving proper attention to its duties. Between neglect of duty on the part of the Medical Health Officer and refusal on the part of the Council to supply the funds necessary for carrying out his recommendations, the public health has to a large extent been left to take care of itself, It is satisfactory to observe that the civic authorities have shown their appreciation of the importance of securing as the head of this department a man of undoubted ability by asking leading members of the medical profession to assist in making the selection. Under these circumstances it is not too much to hope that the choice will be a wise one. We observe that <person>Ald. Ritchie</person>, a practical plumber who has recently been acting as chairman of the Local Board of Health, is reported to have made the discovery that incapacity marks also the plumbing inspection department. If this charge be well-founded, no time should be lost in demonstrating the fact, in order that steps may be taken to secure efficiency in every branch of the service.





T

HE action of the <assoc>Brick Manufacturers' Association of New Jersey </assoc>in refusing to ship brick to New York City until the boycott instituted by the labor unions against four firms belonging to the Association for refusing to discharge their nonunion employees, has had the desired effect. The boycott having been raised, the supply of brick is forthcoming as usual, and building operations are again in full swing. The New Jersey brickmakers are worthy of congratulation, not only on having put a check upon the dictatorship of the walking delegates, but also on having shown to employers elsewhere the advantages to be derived from an exhibition of backbone. Whether as the result of their example or otherwise, a disposition to submit no longer to such dictatorship has extended to Canada also. <person>Mr. Davie</person>, of Levis, P. Q., who contemplated employing a large number of men in the dry dock at that place during the coming winter, was recently waited on by representatives of the <assoc>Knights of Labor </assoc>and urged to either dismiss those of his employees who were not members of that organization, or use his influence to compel them to join. Mr. Davie properly enough refused to interfere in any way with the choice of his employees, and to threats of a strike responded that if any attempts were made to coerce him, he would abandon the work entirely. A few such instances of determination on the part of employers to retain the management of their business in their own hands, will have a tendency to keep within reasonable bounds those who so frequently misrepresent the interests of labor.





O

NE of the crying needs of our cities and towns is a system of public baths. We have organized systems of scavenging whereby our lanes and back yards are kept measurably free from pollution. We have organized systems of police surveillance protecting us as a rule from serious loss of property. We have systems of waterworks so generally distributed that rich and poor can enjoy its lavish use, while our roads and sidewalks are made and kept in order by the municipality. True, we pay for all these conveniences by being taxed our due proportion, but how infinitesimal is the cost to the individual as compared to what like service would cost him were it supplied independently. Why then should we not have our public baths? We endeavor to keep our cities clean and think we are highly civilized, and yet we allow our poor to go unwashed from January to December. A few members of the male sex may, during the summer months, obtain a dip in lake, river or bay, but at an expenditure of time and money that can be ill afforded by the very poor, while often the need of cleansing is in inverse ratio to the ability to obtain

it.	We should take a lesson from the Romans who provided most liberally and even sumptuously in this respect. We have appliances far superior to the ancients for procuring, storing and heating the water, and yet, as a rule, we do nothing or wait for private liberality or enterprise to supply this great want. The baths need not necessarily be absolutely tree. That which costs nothing is apt to be unappreciated, and it would tend less to

