	<doctype type="text">January, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	9



remarkable ideas of what the architects duties were. It was simply a question of explaining to the client what an architect's duties were, As a rule, the architect should not be the Clerk of Works. He should only be supposed to say a certain kind of work. and certain standard of work, were necessary to produce certain results. He did not think it should be necessary for an architect to visit a building more than once a week, if the work were properly managed. If the contractor were supplied with proper drawings, and if capable, willing men were carrying out the plans, the work should go on smoothly It should not be necessary to watch a man in order to prevent him from using soft brick. Same people had an idea that an architect could put up a $15,000 building for $7,000 and some architects endeavored to do so, with the result that they were disappointed. Clients who expected to get a first-class building put up for less than its value, should Le told what they would get. A great deal bad been said about the best class of work being necessary, but a man could not get it unless he was willing to pay for it. What be desired to see was that this misunderstanding should be removed. On the subject of tenders be would like to hear the views of the architects present. He did not think any architect should reject a tender because be might think it was too low. If be thought a contractor had made a mistake be would ask him to look into the matter again. and if, after doing so a second time. he made no change then the tender should be rejected, This was in a case where tenders bad been privately called for. If tenders were publicly advertised for in the papers, and it was intimated that the lowest tender would not necessarily be accepted, the standing of the man in his trade should be considered. He would set a certain value upon each man who tendered. A goad man might be worth say ten or twenty per cent more than an inferior man. If the tender the former sent in was eight per cent, higher than the latter, it would, considering the relative merits of the men, be lower, In this way be would rate each man according to the value of the work be knew that man to do.

Mr. <person>W. J. Smith </person>believed that under nearly all circumstances the lowest tender should be accepted. There were lots of men in every branch of trade in Toronto who were known to do work right up to the mark. Of course if the architect bad a doubt in his mind as to the accuracy of the tender, be would do right to ask the man making it to look into it again. But no tender should be finally rejected on that ground. No client should be called upon to pay money out of his pocket simply because the architect might take exception to certain figures. With reference to certificates, be had seen a clause in some that they were not to be regarded as acceptance of the work done. That form had been in use by builders in Toronto for the past fifteen years, and had successfully held its own in the courts.

<person>Mr. Wilson </person>asked if a contractor far a certain work gave figures that were accepted, and was instructed to go to the architect's office and have the agreement drawn up and signed by the architect, and if before the proprietor signed it, be decided to have the work done otherwise, what rights bad the rejected contractor.

The Chairman said that if the contract was signed by both parties, it bound bath. If a proprietor instructed his architect to accept a tender, be bad no right to act contrary to that without notifying him.

<person>Mr. Gordon </person>said that some years ago be had a case somewhat similar to this. He was instructed to accept a certain tender, and be got the contractor to sign. In the meantime the work was delayed at the instance of the client. The contractor bad been at some expense in purchasing and holding material and be sent in a claim. This claim be (Mr. Gordon) considered perfectly reasonable, but the client tried to make out that because the contract was not signed it did not bind him. The matter went to the courts, and the judge would not listen In this contention, and held that as the contract bad been signed by the contractor with the intention of the proprietor signing it, it was binding.

The Chairman said there was also the case in which the late <person>Lionel Yorke </person>claimed compensation for the delay of the City of Toronto in not having the excavation for the foundation of the <building>Court House </building>proceeded with. The contract was awarded to him, and the signing was delayed until the City Treasurer, who was away, should return, It was decided some time afterwards that the work should not be proceeded with. Mr. Yarke entered suit to be reimbursed the expenses be bad undertaken. He bad sent for large quantities of Portland cement. The claim he (<person>Mr. Storm</person>) believed was established and paid.

<person>Mr. Langley </person>said that when a client employed an architect to build a house, be did so because he could not do the work himself, and be counted on the architect's honesty and judgment to have the work properly done. The architect's work was entirely in his own bands. There was no reason why the architect should fret his life away by employing inferior contractors. If an architect was careful of his own credit, be would not do that. When an architect was asked by a client to prepare plans, be was expected to carry out those plans as perfectly as possible. It rested with the architect to say whether the work should be done by an inferior contractor. There were enough contractors in Toronto who could carry out the work faithfully. Architecture should not be a worrying, harassing business.

<person>Mr. Curry </person>said there was another point that should be dealt with, and that was specifications, It was not fair to ask a contractor to tender under faulty specifications. A great deal of this was done from two reasons— firstly, that the architect did not know what be wanted, and secondly, that be might be so pressed that be bad no time to decide what be wanted.

this was not fair to the contractor. Some men specified all work must be satisfactory to my client." It was impossible to know what that meant. Others specified that the work must be done in a workmanlike manner. Time was when that was considered sufficiently explicit. Nobody knew what it meant. Under that specification a man might put on a 15 cent or a $15 lock Now it was the practice to specify more definitely. Sometimes, however, in calling for some particular article, the architects were accused of favoring one special industry. What might be a first-class thing in one house, might not be first-class in another house of more expensive character. <person>Mr. Bousfield </person>said be would like to bear more upon the subject of tendering. He had not changed his views on that matter.

Mr. Langley said that where tenders were advertised for, he felt that the right was reserved to accept any tender. Where a limited number were solicited to send tenders, be felt it was a matter of simple justice and honesty that the lowest should be accepted. In giving a special invitation to men to tender, it was done upon the supposition that they were thoroughly reliable.

Mr. Bousfield said that was the point be had endeavored In bring out. In inviting special men to tender, only reliable men were asked. It was impossible to get beyond the fact that clients as a rule wanted to make the most out of a small sum of money. If an architect accepted a tender that was $500 higher than the lowest, there would be apt to be some difficulty.

The Chairman said that if a certificate were granted, it would mean that the architect was prepared to accept the work it represented. Of course there might be a private agreement between the architect and the contractor that any work that was not up to the mark should be improved, but the architect could not relieve himself of responsibility in the matter. With regard to tendering, ,it was a well understood principle that if tenders were advertised for with the proviso reserving the right of selection, it was quite fair to decide according to the merits of the men who tendered. If special invitations were issued, they would only be issued to men who would be acceptable. and consequently the lowest should be awarded the contract.

Mr. Gordon's motion, with reference to the special form of certificate, was put and carried.

<person>Mr. Helliwell </person>moved that a vote of thanks be tendered to Mr. Bousfield for his excellent paper.

Mr. Curry seconded the motion, which was carried.



<article title="Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder  Winnipeg" author="">WINNIPEG.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

T

HE building season is rapidly closing down in this city as far as applies to outside work, but there is considerable stir in several branches of the trades owing to buildings being started rather late in the season, and therefore carpenters, beating engineers, plumbers and painters are very busy completing the several contracts. As an example of the quantity of hot water beating yet to be done, Messrs. <firm>N. D. McDonald & Co.</firm> have contracts amounting to $6, 500.

Messrs. <firm>Rourke & Cass</firm>, the contractors for the new N. P. depot, hotel, train shed, &c., have succeeded in roofing In the depot, and are confident that the employees of the company will be at work in their splendid new offices by the middle of January. The new depot, although plain, is a very imposing building of three stories, and half story basement, faced with St. Louis red brick, with brown stone dressing. The train shed will be covered in a few days, when passengers for the first time in Winnipeg will step oft or on the cars under cover. The stonework of the new hotel has been completed up to first floor level, and will be allowed to stand until spring. <person>Mr. Chatterton</person>, the well-known architect, of this city, has Just completed

thorough transformation in the McArthur Block, both inside and out, for the London & Canadian Loan Agency Co., and the <assoc>Confederation Life Association </assoc>are just beginning to rearrange the inside of the block hitherto known as the Beggs block This building is to be fitted up as offices and residential chambers, all to be heated with hot water, and lighted by the incandescent light. Messrs. <firm>Timewell & Son</firm>, are the architects.

The new city market is complete, except the beating, which is being done by the firemen under the superintendence of the City Engineer. This is quite a new departure from the ordinary custom, which should gratify the most rabid political or municipal economist The outlook for the building business for next year is very promising. All the architects have already received instructions for considerable work, and 1890 will be the busiest year yet experienced far Winnipeg and the province generally.



<article title="Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder Montreal" author="">MONTREAL 

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



INTERESTING TO ARCHITECTS.



<person>W. McLea Walbank</person>, architect, vs. the <building>Protestant Asylum for the Insane</building>, was an action in the Superior Court brought by Walbank against the governors of the Insane Asylum, to compel them to submit the plans for their new Asylum to experts or to pay him the value of his plans. The case was beard before <person>Judge Tait </person>recently. The plaintiff proved that an advertisement appeared in the public press asking architects to compete "for the best plan of accommodation for two hundred and fifty patients, cost not to exceed eighty thousand dollars ($80,000). For further information apply to <person>G. B. Burland</person>, President Mr. Burland's evidence went to show that Walbank, anticipating that the competition would not be free and fair, so informed the said President, and asked him if the decision would be

