January, 1890

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



of carving and decorative printing, until he has so far improved his draughtsmanship that he will not do injustice to his ideas, which in this design are good enough in their way. It is doubtful if this drawing will reproduce well.

"Rex," who has a good proportion and plan, we would place third. The drawing is fair, but the printing is bad.

"Recherche" has done anything but employ research, having put a large size builder's porch of the commonest type of turning and bracketing on a small size house. The printing here too is very poor, while the drawing is only passable.

"Gambetta" has a verandah that is not absolute nonsense, but his porch with the seats carefully projecting into the sun and rain, is laborious wrong-doing.

"New Year" has about the same kind of a design—carpenter-like details in quantity sufficient to spoil any good design, which this one is not.

Your obedient servants,

<person>W.A. LANGTON</person>.



<person>R.J. EDWARDS</person>.



<person>JOHN GEMMELL</person>.



The names of the successful competitors in the above competition are in their order of merit, as follows

"Mi Yodea," (<person>Ernest Wilby</person>,) 106 Yorkville Ave., Toronto.

"Utilissimus," (<person>Robt. J. McCallum</person>,) 213 McCaul St., Toronto.

NOTE.



Several essays have been received in competition for the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER'S prise for the best essay on "Plumbing." Considerable time is required for the proper consideration of the merits of the work of each competitor, and the judges were unable to announce their decision in time for publication in this number. The result will appear in our issue for February.



<article title="Sun Life Assurance Company Building Competition—Expert's report" author="Magauley, R."><building>SUN LIFE ASSURANCE CO. BUILDING </building>COMPETITION—EXPERTS' REPORT.

TORONTO, Nov. 30th, 1889.

<person>R MAGAULEY</person>, ESQ.,



Managing Director Sun Life Assurance Co., Montreal.



DEAR SIR,—On the 23rd inst. we received from you the fifteen sets of designs sent in competition for the proposed new offices for your Company, and in accordance with your request we have made a careful examination of each design separately. Out of these fifteen designs we have selected four, which in our opinion, for various reasons, have more points in their favour than the others. These four, we think, are entitled to the prizes offered, and in the following order.

1st. "WELL CONSIDERED," (Mr. <person>Robert. Findlay</person>, of Montreal).

2nd. "CROSS IN CIRCLE," (Mr. <person>W. T. Thomas</person>, of Montreal).

3rd. "TUUM EST," (Mr. <person>McLea Walbank</person>, of Montreal).

4th "SOL," (in black ink) (Messrs. <firm>James&James</firm>, of Toronto).

The design we place first has a very good plan for the ground floor, but we think that this floor would be better to remain clear of all partitions, and as one large room, so that it could be divided by tenants to suit their own purposes. The first floor plan, containing the General Offices, Manager, Actuary and Secretary's room, is, we consider, laid out with great care and knowledge of the requirements. The partitions dividing the office could perhaps be omitted altogether and wood screens, glazed in the upper panels, substituted where necessary. The author has carefully followed the "Instructions," and placed the Board Room on the first floor, but this space might with advantage be given into the General Office, and the Board Room placed on the floor above. The second floor plan is divided into rooms for agents and other officers of the Company. A small portion not required for such purposes is arranged for renting. This space we think might be better used by here placing the Board Room, and the Company would then have spacious offices occupying the whole of the first and second floors. The other floors are divided into offices of a convenient size for renting purposes. The author has selected a type of Renaissance architecture for his elevations. The selection is good, for, owing to the narrowness of the principal frontage, a bold or heavy style would not be so suitable; the design is well considered, and has a rich and handsome aspect.

"Cross in Circle."—This design shows an arrangement of the first and second floors which requires little improvement. A good feature is the well-hole between these floors, By this the two floors are united, and to the public the size of the Company's premises is better understood. Another good point is the waiting room between the Manager's Room and the Public Hall, The exterior design is not as good as many of the others submitted.

"Tuum Est."—The plans in this design have been very well considered, and have many features in common with the designs placed first and second. The Board Room is placed on the second floor and occupies a position suitable to a room of its importance. The exterior aspect of the design is very imposing, although the three tiers of arches on the ground, first and second floors, is somewhat monotonous.

The design bearing the motto "Sol," in black, is not so well planned as those already described. The entrance hail to the Company's offices is very faulty, and the stair badly arranged. Too much space is given to the public on the first flat, thus reducing the general office more than is necessary. The Clerks' Lunch Room is on the second floor, with window to Notre Dame Street. This is too valuable a space for such a purpose. The exterior is very skillfully designed, and may be considered one of the best designs submitted.

The other eleven designs we will briefly allude to without regard to order

"Star in Circle" has a very handsome exterior, It is simple, but for architectural design it is not surpassed by any. The entrance hail to the upper flats is well arranged, but otherwise the plans are rather inferior.

"Beata" has sent in a very pleasing and well-proportioned elevation. The first floor plan is not good, because it is necessary for the Actuary and the Secretary to pass through the Manager's Room or across the stair landing before they can reach the General Office also too much space is wasted in the General Office.

"Aurora" (red) has a good elevation, but very weak plans.

"Rex."—The arrangement of the second floor is decidedly bad, and valuable space thrown away unnecessarily.

"Aurora" (black).—The principal officers' rooms front on a back street, while the clerks have the advantage of Notre Dame Street corner.

"Sunflower."—Elevations too much broken up and overdone with pilasters, corbels, etc. The first floor plan shows the General Office much too small, also situated fronting Notre Dame St.

"Spot in Circles."—Elevations show much originality and architectural ability. Valuable space of the outside has been given to the staircase, thus detaching the officers' rooms from the General Office, and placing the Medical Examiner's room in the darkest part of the building.

"Sol," (red).—The entrance, vestibule and staircase condemn this plan at once, the elevator having no way of getting to it, excepting over the ends of the bottom steps of the stair. Also the columns may be necessary for the construction, but the arrangement would be decidedly inconvenient.

"Facet et Spera" has the same faults of plan as "Beata," the General Office being too small to be of any use.

"Lang Syne."—Plans of the various floors better than some of the others, but the elevations too severe, and more suitable for a warehouse.

"Techne."—The Lavatory occupies the corner window on the second floor. The General Office has the whole of Notre Dame Street corner, the Manager and other officers being separated and put to the rear. The elevations have originality.

	(Signed),	<firm>KNOX, ELLIOTT & JARVIS</firm>.





Mr. <person>Edward Playter</person>, Mo., in an address before the Ottawa Society recently, remarked that the plan of warming now so generally adopted, with a series of hot water or steam pipes in the room, without any special means for changing the air is to be very greatly deprecated. There should be legislature prohibiting such method of warming, unless special provision for ventilation, aside from ordinary window ventilation, were provided, and in such a way that the use of it could not be avoided. Most people do not understand the necessity for free ventilation, and education in this, as in other matters, is one great want of the day.

