<doctype type="colophon">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



VOL. 111.—No. XI.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, CANADA, NOVEMBER, 1890.	PRICE 20 CENTS

		 $2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,



DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU



FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	- TORONTO, CANADA.

TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL





 SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages paid.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The "Canadian Architect and Builder" is the official paper of

the Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec.



The publisher desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give bath the old and new address.



M

U CH has been done of late in the direction of improving



 the roadways and sidewalks of Toronto, much more still remains to be done. Nowhere does improvement seem to be more conspicuously necessary than in Queen's Avenue. For many years an old cement walk, full of great cracks and holes, the result of the action of frost, has been allowed to remain on this prominent thoroughfare, as a mark of discredit to the city. It is to be hoped another summer will not be allowed to pass without seeing the roadway asphalted and the old walk in question replaced by something durable in quality and respectable in appearance. _____________________





W

E have more than once heard the complaint from Canadian manufacturers that some Canadian architects systematically specify American in preference to Canadian and English goods, and that this is done even in instances where it would be impossible to show that the article produced at home was in any degree inferior to that imported from the United States. If the facts are correctly stated, we think the complaint of manufacturers with large interests at stake in the country, is well founded, It is absurdly inconsistent for any Canadian architect to complain of the injustice of the conduct of those who, passing by home talent, entrust their architectural work to foreigners, so long as he pursues the same unpatriotic policy with regard to the purchase of the materials entering into his buildings. It is a pleasure to be told that there are architects in Canada who

invariably give the preference to home productions. Let us hope that their example will be copied by those who in the past may have pursued a less commendable policy.



A

BOUT 140 architects have registered under the Ontario Architects' Act, largely exceeding the expectations of the Council, As usual, <person>Mr. Townsend</person>, the Registrar, was kept busy during the last hours of the final day (Nov 5). Human nature is the same all the world over, and procrastination is the bane of architects as well as other people. While three months were allowed in which to observe this simple act, the majority did not register till within the last week or two of the limit. One man was so careless, that his more business-like partner had to rush down at the eleventh hour and do the deed for him. And now will come the examination of candidates who were caught without oil in their lamps. We presume the standard will be gradually raised so that in the course of a few years it will be impossible for any but competent and thoroughly trained men to enter the ranks of the profession—a "consummation devoutly to be wished." It is to be hoped that long before that time the Legislature will have so amended the statute, that no man may assume the simple title architect" who has not entered the ranks of the profession in the accredited manner.



S

EVERAL architects in giving expression to their views at the inaugural meeting of the Quebec Association, touched upon the important subject of the proper training of architectural students, It is an admitted fact that the amount of time which an architect in active practice can give to the instruction of young men employed as students in his office, is altogether inadequate to their requirements. Some means must therefore be found to supplement to a very considerable extent the knowledge which is at present obtainable from a term spent in an architect's office. Let us hope that in the near future an opportunity will be afforded the young men of the Province of Quebec to study architecture at McGill University, In the meantime, the interests of the students might be materially helped by the organization in the cities of Montreal and Quebec of Architectural Sketch Clubs, on the basis of the one existing in Toronto. Such an organization would open the way for architects to impart instruction to the students collectively, and at a slight expenditure of time. The meeting of the students from the various offices once or twice a month to compare notes and measure skill, would soon have its effect in a deepened interest in their work, as well as in another and no less important direction, the formation of friendships which would last throughout future years, and tend to dissipate the spirit of estrangement and unfriendly criticism which has marked to too great an extent the dealings of architects one with the other in the past.





THE need of improved building regulations and of proper and intelligent inspection is being constantly brought to the notice of architects. A case in point has occurred not more than a mile from the City Hall in Toronto. The work is being done under the supervision of " a practical man," so-called. A wall about 35 feet high supporting three floors and a roof was

