<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	 October, 1890



at one time that when a man was fit for nothing else he might turn school master. In Canada when a man is fit for nothing else, it is supposed that he can turn architect. When we have blown our horn and blown it long and loud, we need care for no ten year law An American friend said to me once, You architects can knack a hole through anything in the way of a building." I said. If we cannot knack a hole through anything there is no use in our trying to make something that nobody else can knack a hole through." These projects which have been suggested are all in the bud—I mean the project of having a chair of architecture in McGill College, and a course of lectures on architecture. When the Association is established it will enter into the head of some plutocrat that the best thing he can do with his money is to endow a chair of architecture. We can go to the Local Legislature and in the Dominion Government and say, "Why are we behind the rest of the world? Why do you not make tests of our Canadian woods and stones? How is it that we can tell the crushing weight that European and American stones will stand, and do not know anything as to the qualities of our own building material? Throw open your library at Ottawa, at least the few works on architecture that you have there, for the benefit of architects throughout the country and not keep them there merely for the use of members of Parliament who never look at them. You need never look abroad for talent you have enough of it in Canada if you utilize it." As Mr. Hutchinson has remarked, those who study the profession in Canada are necessarily self made men When we have such advantages as those which may be found in other countries, the day will come when the petty jealousies which have been spoken of to-day will cease. When we have a basis of union we will unite, but as we were before, our seniors must not blame us for the disunion and animosity that prevail. When we bad no grand object to draw us together, we quarreled among ourselves about petty things. Let us hope that a bright day is dawning for the future of architecture in the Dominion. I beg to thank you for the attention with which you have listened to my remarks. (Applause).

<person>Mr. Perrault </person>I propose. in revenge for the motion that I lost yesterday, when I proposed that we should have twenty instead of fifteen, that we can reach the twenty just as well this year by having our photographs taken and sent to the Secretary who, if you adopt the idea, could have a group picture made by Notman. It could be done just as well in that way as to photograph the group, and it would be a souvenir worth preserving. It could be kept in our offices or private rooms, and it would show that we are not merely individual architects, but that we are members of one large family.

The toast of the President, Mr. Hopkins, was then given.

<person>Mr. Hopkins</person>, R.C.A.: Gentlemen. I assure you that I find it difficult to return thanks in proper terms for the very cordial manner in which you have drank my health. Though an old man in years, this is the first time that I have sat at the head of a table in this capacity, and anything I say must be taken with a certain allowance for my inexperience. As I have already told you. I am willing to do all I can to further the objects of the Association. I would much rather that the choice of President had fallen on some one more able to fill the position. (Cries of "no, no.") I know that my antique face and long connection with the profession in Montreal has had something to do with the selection at the same time I feel as much flattered as if I were a young fellow getting his degree. I shall never forget it, and I shall always point to it with pride when I speak of my career to my children I have a son following the profession, and it will be an ambition for him to hope some time to fill the same position. It was totally unsought by myself, and I can hardly find words to express the kind feelings that I have towards every gentleman at this table. This meeting has brought us together. I have made the acquaintance of many whom I had not known before, and of some whom I had only met casually. As <person>Mr. Hutchison </person>has said, we have not been thrown much together in the past; there will not be the same excuse if the same should be said in the future. We must meet from time to time, and I hope that the same good feeling which has prevailed at this meeting will exist at all our gatherings, whether for business or otherwise. Enough has been said by those who have preceded me as to how the Association should be carried on and what should be done to promote the interests of the profession, with all of which I heartily agree I thank you very much for the hearty manner in which the toast was proposed. Permit me to propose a toast which occurred to me yesterday: We often drink to absent friends and ships at sea." With this toast I wish to couple the name of an old cofrere, who through ill-health has had to leave the city for a time—I allude to <person>Mr. Steele</person>. (Applause.) I only hope that the sojourn on the other side will re-establish his health. He has that about him which will make a long life honored. I hope that Mr. Hutchison in writing to him, will mention that he was not forgotten at our meeting (Cheers

<person>A.	T. Taylor</person>, F R.I.RA. Mr. President and gentlemen of Quebec and Montreal, my professional brothers: I think you have had enough speechifying to-day without listening to anything that I could say. What I should like to have said has been much better said than I could state it. The field has been well covered. I join in congratulating the meeting on the success of our first annual meeting and the launching of this Association I have felt. in common with all of us, that we have been far too much apart. We have all been like stars shining each in his own sphere—-spheres of the first magnitude, no doubt, but still apart. We have been brought together now, and I hope we shall be able to shine in a glorious constellation, making such an illumination as will make Canada the brighter and better for our work. (Applause.) I have listened with pleasure to those who have said that they hoped all jealousies and ill "'ill would disappear That has been the bane of our profession. 1 trust from this time forward you will all join in a loyal comradeship. and will do everything you can to advance the interests of architecture We must not say that we are of Quebec and you of Montreal; architecture is above and beyond all cities. We must not say, "I am of one nationality and you are of another" , architecture is above and beyond all nationalities. (Cheers) We must not say, "I am of one language and you are of another, because architecture has a language of its own, and had a language before spoken or written language had appeared. I trust we shall be able to join together, sinking all our petty differences, and show to the public that we are comrades standing shoulder to shoulder, and advancing hand in hand. The Dominion of Canada is large enough for all our efforts. We hope to see the time when from the Atlantic to the Pacific this country will be studded with noble buildings. We are the men to do it. We do not need to go across the border or across the Atlantic to find men for the work. We are just as well qualified or ought to be as well qualified, as they are for our work. We have the noble examples of the past, all the noble works of the Greeks and Romans, and of the Goths and of the Renaissance. Why should we not profit by such examples, as well as others of the present day? I hold that we can, and it is our duty to show to the public generally that we can. We have not only our own honor to conserve, but we have the honor of each other and of the Association to uphold. I trust it will be a thing of the past when any of us

will attempt to underrate or detract from the reputation or good name of any member of the Architects' Association. I have listened with the greatest pleasure to those who have spoken as to what is needed in the way of training our young members. I have tried for some time to have something done in this direction. I have brought the subject to the notice of the governors of McGill College, and tried in every way to get a chair of architecture established there. I hope the influence of this Association will be sufficiently powerful to bring that to a successful issue, and that we shall be in a position to train our young men here without having to send them abroad for an education. I will not trouble you further, but thank you for the honor you have done me, and hope that we will have many pleasant re-unions such as this. (Cheers.)

Mr. Hutchinson, R. C. A.: I should like to propose a toast We have said a great deal about the success of the Association, but I think there is another society whose success is bound up in ours and ours in theirs—I refer to the Ontario Association of Architects. Of course they have taken the lead in the formation of a society in Canada. They are much larger in numbers than we are, but I hope that the two societies will be found working together in harmony, with the object and aim of eventually amalgamating together in one Dominion Association. That is the object that we should try and work for. Canada is not a bit too big to have one Association, and I hope that one of our objects will be to bring about the union of the two Associations into one grand Dominion organization. I therefore have great pleasure in proposing the health of the Ontario Society of Architects, and just couple with it the wish that the Secretary would intimate to them the expression of our goad wishes, of our respect for them, and the hope that we will co-operate together for the promotion of the interests of architecture. (Loud cheers).

<person>Mr. Roy</person>: I perceive that we have almost forgotten one of the principal toasts of the day, that is to the Committee on Organization, which, as you all know, has merited from us all our unqualified thanks for the work that they have done in bringing together and organizing such a large number of architects for the first time. I call upon Mr. Nelson to respond

<person>Mr. Nelson </person>R. C. A.: I beg to thank you. on behalf of the Committee of Organization for your kind remembrance of us. Speaking for the absent ones as well as for myself, I may say that we had a good deal of work to do. It was done with great pleasure, and I am very happy indeed that it has resulted in the organization of the society. I agree with almost all that has been said so ably by those who have preceded me, and I will not take time further but thank you for your kindly recognition of the services of the Committee of Organization.

<person>Mr. Dunlop</person>, R. C. A.: Gentlemen I have great sympathy with this Association. It has been a very sore point with me, coming to Montreal as I did from the States, after I had served my time, to see that architects coming as strangers to this city were looked upon as interlopers. When I went to Detroit a young man, though unknown to the architects there, I "'as received with open inns by the Detroit Association. I hope that this Association will extend a welcome to all comers who have the interests of architecture at heart. as that which I received at Detroit. The architectural profession is different from almost any other profession in the world, It is one to which no man can be educated unless he is born an architect. I hope that this chair at McGill College which Mr. Hutchinson has spoken of, and also a French chair at Laval Institute, will soon become a fact, and that we shall call on the Quebec Government to assist the project. (Cheers), Moreover I would say that the architects who are present here would all be willing to subscribe to a chair, and if there should be competitions, that we should subscribe so as to enable students to have the privilege of studying free if they should be winners. The architects of Montreal have been looked down upon, and I think it is time that they should assert their dignity. I for one would be willing at any time to subscribe to establish a chair at McGill for the advancement of the interests of architecture, and I would also suggest that the Association should form a library and the citizens of Montreal should be asked to assist them in establishing it, to enable students to have the best facilities for studying their profession. I know the disadvantages that we labor under in Montreal. In Europe and in the United States students have a great advantage over Canadians. Canadian architects are in a lower position than their brethren in the neighboring country, not because they have less talent, but because they have not such goad opportunities for studying. I would suggest that the Council should take that subject into their serious consideration in order that students may be given every possible opportunity to educate themselves and become eminent architects, which I have no doubt many Canadians have the brains to become. (Cheers).

<person>Mr. Peachy </person>followed in French.

<person>Mr. Perrault</person>. There is one toast that we have overlooked. If we want to succeed, we must give time and means to accomplish the result, but that is not enough; we must make known to the world what we are doing. I therefore propose "The Press of Canada," represented here by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

<person>Mr. Mortimer</person>, the representative of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, responded, wishing the Association a long and successful career.

The visitors having to leave the city by the evening boat for Quebec, the luncheon was brought to a close by the singing of "Auld Lang Syne" and "God Save the Queen." The visitors were accompanied to the boat by the President, the second Vice-President, and Messrs. Dunlop, Perrault, <person>Resther</person>, <person>Doran, </person><person>Clift </person><person>Daoust, </person><person>Venne</person> and others, who gave them "three cheers and one cheer more" as the steamer left the wharf.

<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL

A meeting of the <assoc>Canadian Society of Civil Engineers </assoc>was held at Montreal recently for the purpose of presenting a congratulatory address to the President, Sir <person>C. S. Gzowski</person>, who recently had conferred upon him by the Queen the Order of Knightbood. The proceedings terminated with a dinner at the St. James Club.



The architectural firm of <firm>Hutchinson & Steele</firm>, Montreal, has been dissolved, owing to <person>Mr. Steele</person>'s ill-health. and his determination to reside in England for the future. Much regret is expressed at his departure from Montreal, and at the circumstances which have rendered it necessary. A pleasant feature in connection with his removal, however, was the presentation to him by Mr. <person>George Roberts </person>on behalf of the city contractors, of a gold watch, chain and pendant bearing a suitable inscription.

