

<doctype type="text"><article title="Architecture without decoration" author="Sturgis, Russell">ARCHITECTURE WITHOUT DECORATION.*

T

HE buildings which have no statuary may be, like the admirable <building>Trocadero palace</building>, fine in a mass and in minor proportions, but they will be nearly bare of details, without moldings (and how much they lose in losing these !), without sculptured ornament, without color, except some two penny scraps of blue and gold in the upper members. An excellent colossal statue crowns the edifice on the Trocadero, and interesting groups of heroic size form accessories and outworks to it, but it is too vast to have realized sculpture lavished upon its whole mass, and therefore it is bare.

Nor is there any prospect of bettering the condition of our workmen or of bringing them nearer in harmony with the task that is set before them. The tendencies are the other way. Machinery, labor saving contrivances of a hundred sorts, individual personal ambition to be thought an artist and to rise in some way out of the role of handicraftsman, and the almost absolute disappearance from modern life of any understanding of decorative design which, so far as I can see, is recognized only in gentle harmonies of subdued color and in a certain play of metallic or textile surfaces, not in delineation nor in modeling; these and all the influences of the day warn us not to expect any nearer approach to the conditions requisite for Gothic art. We have to face the situation and try to realize that if one thing is not possible, another is; that, if we cannot get workmen who are also decorative artists, we can still get workmen, and we can still get artists. That is our hope, and our only hope-—for, bear with me while I continue to insist upon the incapacity of our community for decorative design. Consider Have you ever known a man who could fill a panel with leafage in relief and cast the parts so as to occupy the space beautifully, solids and voids balanced, and the pattern or scrolls of foliage so kept up from the background, that at thirty feet, as well as at three feet, it looks well—looks like a successful design? Do you suppose there is one designer in New York who can do that, unless he is frankly, consciously copying Renaissance work, or Indian work? Or are there actually two or three whom you could name? Let there be two or three, and my point is equally well established, It is not by an individual here and there that the demand for decorative art shall be supplied.

No modem decorative work even seems good, is even attractive and agreeable, unless it is closely imitated from ancient work. If it is a carpet we have to design, we study Indian, Persian and Anatolian rugs; if it is wood inlay, we study Italian fifteenth century and modem examples; if it is metal relief, we study Japanese stamped and Italian hammered work; if it is wrought iron, we study French and German fourteenth century fleurons and grilles; and, unless we stick close to our originals we are lost. There are some industrial arts in which it has not been the fashion to study and copy ancient examples; thus the porcelain and delf for our tables are not often copied, and they are hideous. One never by any chance sees a dinner set to which he would willingly sit down. <person>Mr. Briggs</person>, at the famous corner of Washington and School streets (need I say in Boston !), had a tea set two years ago which were lovely; but it was painted with realized and very faithful sprigs of roses, no two pieces alike. Of ceramic painting we shall have to speak by and by; but now consider furniture. It is very curious to com pare the sideboards and tables made by the English during the past fifteen years with what the French have produced during the same time. The English, having passed through a Gothic experiment and the Queen Anne fad, are working on general principles, combining all sorts of ideas with boundless ingenuity and energy, and the result is curious and interesting, but dismally ugly. The French, tranquilly working on traditional lines, turn out cabinets and tables of really extraordinary beauty, with sculpture which is worthy to be put beside the ancient work which it imitates. A French town of forty thousand people will

*	Read before the <assoc>New York Architectural League</assoc>, by Mr. <person>Russell Sturgis</person>.

have two or three good carvers, or really more than that, for each such workman has a helper or two who can do parts of the

work with great acceptance. They can carve for you panels and friezes for a lit Louis XV. or a babut Louis XVI. with mar-

velous ease and fidelity to style; and, when they have no job in hand, they or some of them can produce deceptive pieces to take in the unwary amateur. The furniture they produce, in close imitation of styles of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, is as superior to the English furniture in comeliness of proportion and in beauty of sculptured detail as it is inferior in novelty, in originality, if that word may be used for what is unsuccessful. So with silverware; our American silver for table use, and for our few occasions of ceremony and show, has been wonderfully original; its makers have been studious of many styles and anxious about all methods of work, and careful of its handicraft But the regular traditional designers of the Parisian workshops produce more graceful and more satisfactory designs. No one else can engrave, or chase, or inlay with gold and copper a salver or a goblet as the Frenchman can, because they do very nearly what their progenitors did, and copy frankly. We are driven to copy all really ornamental work, all patterns, all scrolls and tracery, all simple embossing, all weaving, all embroidery of garments and the like, all inlay, all architectural carving—under the penalty of spoiling our work if we try to be original.

An able man whom I may name as, to our loss, he is no longer an American artist, <person>Alexandre Sandier</person>, had a good Opportunity one year, in the prime of his strength as draughtsman and designer, to work at ceramic painting on a rather large scale. He had returned to his native place near Corton, below the Golden slopes of Burgundy, and had found there a newly established factory of faience be spent much of his winter in experiments and with some practical result. Besides the scores of failures and the many pieces he left with friends in France he brought some huge plateaux and many plates and dishes to America, some of them failures in firing, indeed, but all interesting as attempts in the decoration of simple articles.

His conclusion was that modem ceramic decoration must be by means of pictures; by views, landscapes, heads, portraits, what you will. I have a plate on which, in manganese violet, be has painted an opening in winter woods, a road passing into the forest, covered with trodden snow, and a French soldier lying dead face downward, in the snow and mud. All this is as far elaborated as the monochrome would allow. He tried decoration in various styles also, but his conclusion was this we must leave to the Orientals the decoration by means of scrolls and formal patterns and conventionalized leafage; a stupid Chinaman at sixpence a day can beat our best man, at that; we must do what the Chinaman cannot do, and bring the best science we possess to our pottery painting.

The French potters have felt the same truth, and the only important modern ceramic products, of course, excluding the copies of old works of art have been, I think, the huge deck platters and the like, upon which great peonies or poppies disport themselves freely. If it is said that they are not wholly realistic, that they are conventionalized, after all, the answer is, I think, that they are not consciously conventionalized, that the artist, a practiced flower painter, has got into his work all of the poppy or peony that he possibly could. Oil painting of flowers on canvas is conventionalized because it has to be; water color flowers are conventionalized because nature is too subtle for the artist; in this way and no other, are the French flowers on faience other than fully realized.

We need a definition for the term "decorative art," and we need a good term for that art of representation and expression which is not primarily decorative. One writer of our time makes careful distinction between "art" and "decoration ;" but that seems to lead to greater confusion. The distinction to be drawn is this: If a drawing or a modeling is done to explain and express the thing represented, or to convey the artist's thought about the thing represented, that, on one hand, is art of representation and expression ; let us call it expressional art

on the other hand, the adornment of a surface, a weapon, a utensil is chiefly sought, and the natural objects represented or suggested are used only as suggestions, to furnish pretty lines

