<doctype type="text">October, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	115



man into my office with the idea that I would teach him architecture. What could I do? Nothing And none of my cofreres would do any better than I could myself. I have often advised young men who wished to acquire a knowledge of architecture, to go to the United States and obtain an education there, because they could not obtain one in Canada. I have advised young men to go to Boston and other cities in the United States, to receive an education which they could not get in Montreal. It should be one of the early objects of the Association to establish some means of founding a college or providing other ways of giving young men a systematic training in architecture, and until that is done, our profession will never be what it should be, It is true we have a College of Technology in Montreal, but I do not think architecture forms any part of the subjects taught there. It might be made part of the course, and now that our McGill College here has, through the munificence of some of our citizens of Montreal, been so largely endowed in the Science Department, and where there are so many subjects that would be common between architecture and engineering, I hope the time is not far distant when we shall have a Chair of Architecture or lectures on architecture in connection with the Science and Art Departments. (Cheers.) Independent of the other benefits to flow from the formation of an Association such as this, I look upon that as being one of the most important—the establishment of some means whereby our young men can obtain a proper education in architecture, and I shall do my best, Mr. President, to carry out this object when it comes before us.



<person>Mr. Brown </person>Mr. President and gentlemen—In the outstart I may as well say that I have had nothing at all to do with the amalgamation of these Societies, but I have a few words of advice to give them First of all, I am only too pleased to see you gentlemen gathered together here around one table. I never expected to see so many sit at the same table, joining in one idea and embracing each other's thoughts The great trouble with the profession in Montreal—I am sorry to say in Canada—is animosity and jealousy. I, as one of the senior members of this profession, have nothing to say about it. I have been tampered with, but I laughed at it all The young members of this Association have a lot to learn. They have to learn this that they have got to join their seniors in carrying out the different works, instead of making fun of their seniors. I am very sorry to say that I have seen a good many members at this Board appear in court, in cases where I have been obliged to sue for payment of my professional services, and swear that my services were worth nothing; but the judge told them that they were only swearing to their own opinions and not the value of my services. I hope that this Association will be the foot-stone to an architectural monument that will be lasting for our time at least (Applause.) I hope that we will not be content merely to gather together at the table. where the fruits and the grand things of the time to come will be spread before us, but that we will meet together for mutual benefit and instruction, because neither you nor I can do without the other. We are all members of the one family now—not as we have been, members of different branches. I hope, gentlemen of my profession here, that you will look forward to the promotion of a noble cause, that you will darken to the advice of those that surround you, and that you will take many a hint from those that can aid you, and that you will give hints to those who may require them. There is a great deal to be done, and it seems to me there is a field large enough for us all. I hope we will join hand in hand, under one flag, and that we will, by mutual understanding, agree upon one point—that we are architects on one basis and with one thought and one idea, and that is, that we support each other at any time we may be called upon to do so. (Cheers ) I have seen for years past, as <person>Mr. Baillairge </person>has said, the need of a Society like this. I have reluctantly thought that it never could be formed, because as I have said, jealousy is a strong feeling amongst us all; but, I repeat, there is room for us all, and room for five hundred and a thousand mare in Canada if we will form one band and work together successfully in one cause. The great trouble and dissention amongst the architects in past days, has been to vie with each other as to how much more work one would do than the other for nothing, and how much they might do to try and keep others from getting employment. I have opposed from the first and I still oppose

—I might as well tell the members of the Association who are present—entering into any competition whatever, unless each professional brother is paid for his ideas (Applause ) I for one am willing to sign a document, adhering to my views, that I will enter into no competition unless those that enter into it with me are paid the same as I am paid, and then that a professional brother will be selected as an expert to decide which is the best design. (Applause.) In doing this, it is not because I expect I will be the successful competitor, but because I am willing to bow with due deference to the decision of any one that this Association will appoint, and it is with the idea of giving the public of Montreal to understand that the architects of this province have brains which they are not willing to have doled out as though they were so many scavengers expecting work. I received a notice the other day to enter into a competition, and they calmly told us that they had selected the leading architects of Montreal. I think they should have stated that they would pay the leading architects for their trouble, and would appoint a leading architect to decide as to which design was best. I do not think that they should select some one who, if presented with a sketch of a dog and a little child on a footpath, for instance, will turn it upside down and adopt that design. I for one want to enter into the competition with my brethren on fair terms. There is to be a competition shortly in Montreal and I was waited upon and asked to enter into it. I said, I am willing to enter into competition on one condition, and that is, that the design which may be adopted shall not exceed ten per cent, on the estimates." They said, would it not be better for the architect to carry out the design for the man employing him ?" I said, No, the man of genius who is competent to prepare such a design, is not a contractor." They should not be under the thumb of the general public. I wish this Association to understand that if any man wishes to retain us, that we will endorse what the charges will be, and that we will hold to each other and let them know that we have a claim for our ideas and for what we have to go through—for the experience that we have dearly bought. All that a young man has to do now-a-days to become an architect is to enter an architects office and then after three or four months experience he hangs up his shingle and professes to be an architect. I as one of the profession, protest against this. I say that anyone who wishes to enter this Association should have studied in an architect's office for at least five years. (cheers) and even five years, I may as well say, is a very short term. Although I am a comparatively young man, I have been over thirty years practicing in Montreal, and I know that I have a lot to learn about the business yet, but the young men think they have nothing to learn and can teach their superiors. I shall be glad to have this institution established at once, and a class of instructors as <person>Mr. Hutchison</person> suggests, and that each one of us should take his term—say a fortnight or a week —and train these young men who have talents, and who show some capacity

for the business and let them understand how much they have to learn, instead of letting them go away with the idea that they know as much as they think they do. The longer we live, the mare conscious we become of the extent of our own ignorance. As an architect I may say that there are several clauses in our law which are immensely injurious to us. One is that a contractor and an architect are placed on the same basis, in reference to anything that may happen during the construction of a work Some contemptible proprietor who expects to put up a building for nothing, employs an architect of some standing he will not give hint sufficient means to carry out his design, and being a young man, the architect naturally dislikes the idea of losing the work. Nevertheless, he is held responsible for that work for ten years. The law should he repealed at once, and I think that this Association will have sufficient influence to have that law removed or amended. (Cheers.) In reference to strength, I consider that unity is required, and I agree with Mr. Roy when he says that not only the architects of Canada, but the profession throughout America should go hand in hand—should unite as one man and let the world know that we are not divided—that we are not the spalpeens 'that we are supposed to be. Let us show them that the architects are an educated class. I contend that no architect can be fitted for his profession unless he is educated, because wherever art is appreciated, education must come in first. We know perfectly well that it takes a lifetime of study to make an architect, and when a man becomes an architect, his services should be appreciated. Instead of being domineered over by a certain class, we can by standing together, take such a position as we have never yet held in this country. I am glad to see my Quebec brethren here, and to know that they are joining with the profession in Montreal, heart and hand, and uniting for the purpose of advancing the interests of the profession. This is the first gathering of this kind that we have had, and I hope the longer we live the more thoroughly will we realize that this Association is dong good, not only to its members, but to the profession at large throughout Canada. (Cheers.)

<person>Mr. Doran</person>, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen—Rising after so many of my seniors I feel at a loss to know what to say, hut I must begin by stating that I heartily endorse everything that my cofreres have said—firstly, that we have commenced upon a solid foundation that being assured, I think we need have no fear of the ten years law as regards the stability of our institution. (Cheers). I think none of us will be afraid to guarantee its stability, provided go on in the same spirit in which we have commenced

—provided we carry up the structure from the foundation, cemented by brotherly union and cemented by the proper professional spirit, one which will recognize that there is a field for us all, that we are engaged in the same noble task, and all take our inspiration from the great architect of the Universe—that profiting by the world's hostility in the past, we are prepared to go forward, It is necessary also that we should provide for the education of our younger brethren, of those anxious to join the profession, in order that they shall become worthy members of a noble profession. I say also that it is necessary to go further. A great object has been attained merely in the formation of this Association, merely in the drive through the streets today, small as it may appear to he. It has excited a certain amount of wonder and comment. The question will be asked who are these?" I hope the words will be 'who are the gentlemen that compose that distinguished body of men ?" (Laughter). The answer will be, it is the architects of Montreal and Quebec who have met together to form an association. The public has a great deal to learn as to what constitutes an architect. In a young country like this, where there Are no dilletanties in the art, and the public do not understand that architecture is an art and profession at the same time—do not understand that it requires a rare combination of the artist and business man. The artist is responsible not only for the artistic and the scientific character of his work, but he has also to be a man of business, to understand the ways and means of things and the necessities of those for whom he has to think—that he has to be, as it were, a Father Confessor to the world at large. The trouble is that people do not as a rule understand what an architect's dunes are. I have bad clients of mine come in and haggle about fees, and after they saw the amount of work and responsibility thrown upon me they have sad, 'I did not know you had as much trouble as that; I had no idea that you had so much work to do. I thought it was a simple matter—merely to make out a preliminary sketch, and that your work was then done, and I was under the impression that you were an exorbitant fellow to charge me $100 for a thing like that. I had no idea of the responsibility there is on an architect,' It is necessary that we should educate the public as to what an architect really is. and then there will be no trouble in establishing a tariff The tariff will come by the good sense of our patrons, who will understand that it is better to pay a fair compensation and get full value for their money. Let them understand that the architect is not paid merely for his plans. Same of our clients often want to claim the plans when the work is done; they say I paid for that plan and it is mine." Let such a man understand that he is not paying for a plan, but that he is paying the architect for knowing how to make one. They are merely paying the man who knows how, paying him for the results of a lifetime of study, because I say it takes a lifetime to learn not only architecture but to become proficient in any profession, and every true architect is learning all the time. When the Association is properly formed as it has been to-day commenced—when it ceases to be in a chaotic condition, the public will understand what the profession of an architect is. They will learn that it is not merely necessary for a man to know how to draw a plan—because many a school boy can do that—that does not constitute an architect. When they know what work an architect really has to do they will then be satisfied, as I say, to pay a man not only for what he does— which is merely his tools to show what he has conceived in his brain—hut to pay him for knowing how, and to reward him for the lifetime of study he has devoted to his profession. This I think our Association will in a great measure succeed in doing, and the oftener we meet the better we will become recognized; the more we impress on Governments and Corporations and individuals the importance of our work, the better our standing will be. Even in our fair city of Montreal the idea prevails that all that is necessary to be done to put up a building is to set a lawyer at work. The lawyers will have to recognize that there is a part of jurisprudence belonging to our profession as much as medical jurisprudence belongs to the medical profession Until we respect ourselves we cannot expect the public to do so. Our friend Mr. Brown mentioned to-day in private conversation—and I am sorry that he did not make the same statement in his remarks just now—when asked about his nationality, that he was half American and half Irish. and that he had the American capacity for blowing. (Laughter.) We must all learn that, and we need not go to our neighbors to the south for it When we establish this College of Architecture I propose that Mr. Brown shall give the lessons (laughter), and when we have blown our horn sufficiently to let the public understand what constitutes an architect, the profession will cease to be deserving of the remark that was formerly made about school teaching in England, In the old country it became a proverb

