



<doctype type="text"><article title="Toronto Architectural Sketch Club" author="">TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH CLUB.

O

N Tuesday evening, Oct. 28th, there was a large gathering at the Club rooms, nearly forty members being present, when a paper on "Stained Glass as a Decorative Art" was given by Mr. <person>Sam. Jones</person>. His remarks proved of much interest to those present, and after some discussion thereon a vote of thanks was tendered the lecturer for the evident trouble he had taken in preparing the paper.

The competitive schemes for the decoration of the Club rooms were on exhibition at this meeting, and attracted much attention from the members. Mr. <person>J. A. Radford </person>was awarded both 1st and 2nd places by <person>Mr. Darling</person>, the critic, who, however, reserved his criticism till a later date It is the intention of the Committee to carry out the prize scheme if found compatible with the state of finances.

A successful meeting was held on Tuesday, Nov. 11th. Mr. <person>Edmund Burke </person>gave another one of his practical papers. The subject this time was "Slow-burning Construction," and with the experience the lecturer has had in this method of building, he was able to make it very instructive to the members. An animated discussion followed, in which nearly all present took pait. Mr. Burke again received a hearty vote of thanks from the Club.

Before the lecture, the President, Mr. <person>S. G. Curry</person>, spoke of the importance of the members coming forward in sufficient numbers to ensure the success of the various classes which have been proposed. Classes for water color, drawing from the antique, mathematics and construction, the committee have under consideration already.

At the next meeting, Tuesday, Nov. 25th, Mr. <person>R. W. GambierBousfield </person>will give a paper on "Mouldings" which he hopes to make not only explicit to the younger members, but instructive to the seniors. The drawings for the postponed "Summer Cottage" competition will be on exhibition at this meeting.

The Club is still increasing its membership, six new names having been added to the 1st this month. A visit to the Club at its comfortable quarters will repay anyone at all interested in its work and aims.



<article title="Good Planning" author="Reade, T. Millard ">GOOD PLANNING.*

GOOD planning does not mean simply the disposition of the rooms and approaches on a horizontal plane their vertical

disposition and relative bevels are of quite as much moment. Good planning means the utilization of every square yard that your building covers, without waste. And this applies not only to trade buildings in a crowded city, but also to public buildings, when the architect has ample elbow room. A good plan is always distinguished by a certain simplicity and ease. The better the plan, the more obvious it will seem that the architect's arrangements are those that would have commended themselves to any one. In planning, as in other arts, the greatest art is the concealment of it that is to say, it should be like Nature, that never exhibits conscious effort.

Not only is good planning apparently effortless, it is more; it is the foundation of picturesqueness. There is really very few cases where a symmetrical arrangement is the one best suited to the requirements of a building, but where it is, then adopt it. Buildings deliberately planned for picturesqueness are toys, or constructed paintings, whereas a picturesqueness that flows naturally out of the plan is a never-ending joy. It may be that a plan on the face of it may seem to be devoid of picturesque elements, but the vertical planning may be made to secure a pleasing and broken outline.

Though the plan is the foundation of a design, yet when it is settled in its various features, the plans of the various floors, the sections, and the elevations should grow together as an organic whole.

Architectural design is like a game of chess, the man who sees the greatest number of moves in advance is the better player or planner. After certain preliminary meditations on a blank sheet of drawing-paper and a few crude trials the idea of the building



*Address by President <person>T. Milliard Reade </person>before the <assoc>Liverpool Architectural Socie</assoc>ty

begins to take shape, and when that and the main features are grasped, the details grow with astonishing rapidity.

The conception of the building then takes concrete form, and for those who have not time to work out all the parts in detail, it is quite possible to convey the ideas to others who have. To be able to perform this very important function of conveying to other minds the ideas in one's own, it is necessary, I need hardly say, to have sufficient knowledge to be able to do all the work without aid, if necessary. I find myself that it is possible to settle every important point of a plan, even to very accurate dimensions, with a comparatively few leading lines ; and to know what work it is essential for the principal to do himself and what to depute to others is a very important acquirement in these times of railroad speed. As, I suppose, every one has found out for himself who has practiced design that there are times when a plan obstinately refuses to yield to any analytical power mind may be able to bring to bear upon it at the time. Some problems seem absolutely insoluble. The only remedy in such cases, I find, is to sleep upon it, and then the solution often presents itself voluntarily and without effort, but I have known a bad case to last as long as a week.

It has been said that "to him who can wait, all things are possible." And this seems partly applicable to planning; the misfortune of it is, that often we cannot wait, and in such cases something inferior has to be put up with for the time being.

Planning is a creation, and governed by geometrical possibilities. The man who has the most invention and can carry out combinations of form with mental readiness, who, when met with difficulties can, by ingenious arrangements, overcome them, who has that grasp of the conditions of the problem and can fit all the parts together in such a way that administration can be carried on with the greatest economy of labor, who gets the best possible light for each apartment and from the right direction according to its use, who so arranges his building that full advantage is taken of the aspect, and who, considering throughout that the object of a building is use, has full thought for the health and comfort of the occupants, that man is the ideal planner. But to carry out such an ideal demands an immense amount of varied knowledge, architectural and physical. He must in the first place have studied and be familiar with the methods of ancient practice and the best methods of contemporary architects.

He must understand the physical principles upon which modem systems of drainage and ventilation are founded, be familiar with mechanical ideas and ready in the application thereof, and when all these attainments are embodied in one mind, the foundation of a good architect is made. But why the foundation only? Does it not seem that in these multitudinous acquirements we have the whole architect, body and soul? Body certainly, but not exactly soul. In fact it would be impossible to make a good plan, architecturally speaking, without possessing something not included in this list of qualities. I doubt indeed if a well-balanced plan could be produced by any one not possessed of considerable artistic susceptibility. The artistic, the poetic must be added, the planner must have a ready conception of the possibilities of his construction from an architectural point of view, if he is to work out a satisfactory ensemble which will prove a lasting joy to future generations.





The death is announced near Kingston. Ont., of Mr. <person>R. Sellers</person>, at the extremely advanced age of 99 years. Mr. Sellers was a Canadian, having been barn at Kingston in 1791. He filled for some time the position of superintendent of public works in that city, and late superintendent of the building of the <building>Quebec Cathedral </building>and <building>Fort Henry</building>.



<person>Mr. St. George</person>, the efficient City Surveyor of Montreal. is taking out patents for a socket joint designed to bind together a new sectional vitrified clay pipe which is intended to take the place of brick for sewers of large diameter. The flow of sewage is said to be very much accelerated by the use of this pipe, while the leakage is reduced to the minimum.

It Is a pleasure to be informed that the <firm>St. Johns Drain Pipe Company </firm>of St. Johns, Que., have had a very promising correspondence and many requests for agencies from all parts of the Dominion in response to their advertisement calling the attention of architects and builders to the Hansen patent chimney toppings of which they are the manufacturers for Canada. The article is a good one, and therefore deserving of the success which it seems destined to achieve.

