

<doctype type="text">protected iron beam would give way long before one of wood— in fact before the latter would have charred to the depth of half an inch. It is high time for Toronto architects to rise in a body and insist upon the enactment of sensible by-laws based on modern experience and in line with the best practice in other

places.	____________________





W

 E would bespeak on the part of architects and students a careful perusal of the report of the late meeting of the Council of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>, which will be found in this issue. It foreshadows a great advance in regard to the education of our future architects, and we hope every principal will loyally second the efforts of the Council, by putting before his pupils the necessity of vigorously preparing the work set before them. It is high time for architects to awake to the fact that their profession does not stand on a par with that of medicine and law in the minds of the public, and that they have no one to blame but themselves. Now is the time to go forward and repair the mistakes of the past. Education is the first need of the day, and the profession in the older countries has begun to realize the necessities of the case. Canada must not be behind, and looks to Ontario, her richest province, to lead in this matter. Students must sturdily face the fact that unless they are prepared to work and study with assiduity, to spend their five years in an earnest struggle to fit themselves for their life-work, they had better enter a bank or go behind the merchants' counter.



The Council rightly decided to recommend that the members of the Association abstain from competing for the Montreal Board of Trade. That corporation has shown, by its replies to the protests of both the Quebec and Ontario Associations, that it has little desire to secure designs from Canadian architects. These organizations represent a very large percentage of the architects of any repute in both provinces, and had the Board honestly desired to be, even in a small degree, patriotic, they would have evinced some willingness to accede to the requests of these Associations. The building cannot be erected for double the amount stated in the conditions; this amount, ($275,000), plus 10, has been arbitrarily fixed, and any design exceeding it in estimated cost will be strictly ruled out if the printed conditions are honestly adhered to. This, of course, would rule out all competitors, who would have had all their trouble and expense for nought, and then the Board will be open to treat with some favored "dark horse," who will be unhampered by any limitations in regard to expenditure. No one but a novice, and no one with honest intentions will enter this competition expecting to produce a design worthy of the institution for the amount named. The inference might be therefore drawn that the, competitors will be composed of two classes—fools and knaves. The members of the Toronto Architectural Guild at their monthly dinner on the i ith inst., decided to act in concert with the Associations in the matter.





 <article title="competition for Church Designs" author="">COMPETITION FOR CHURCH DESIGNS.

T

HE Presbyterian Church in Canada has determined upon making an effort to improve the architecture of its churches and with that object proposes to issue a pamphlet containing approved designs with letterpress explaining the same and also treating the question of church architecture from different points of view.

It is proposed to have a competition of designs for churches as per the list of requirements given hereafter, and to publish those designs which may meet with the approval of the experts. The plans and perspective only, with possibly one elevation will be illustrated, as it is not desirable to give sufficient drawings to allow of the design being made use of except through the author. The intention of the Committee of the Presbyterian Church which has this matter in hand is, that the author of a design which may be approved of by any congregation proposing to build shall be employed at the usual commission.

The following prizes, viz, $75, $50, and $25 will be given to the three best designs in order of merit, irrespective of the class under which they may be sent in.

The excellence of a plan will consist in the closeness with which the conditions have been fulfilled, the quality of the design and the inexpensiveness of erecting the building. No limit has been made as to cost in any class, as it is desirable that the designers should not be hampered except in so far that he must bear in mind that a good design which is inexpensive is superior to an equally good or even better design which will cost more money.

The experts, three in number, will be chosen by the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects and their report will be final in the matter.

The three designs which will be awarded the prizes will be chosen from among those standing first and second in the different classes. The experts will be instructed to favour the designs for the small and inexpensive buildings in preference to those for the large and costly ones.

The drawings are to be prepared in black and white to a scale

of 8 feet to the inch. The plans and elevation in line only with windows blocked in or not as may be preferred by the designer. The perspective should be a thoroughly good drawing, and may be rendered as thought fit; but a large amount of extraneous matter should not be put in. The perspectives to be set up from a plan drawn four feet to an inch.

Bad or inferior drawings will not be illustrated, no matter how good the design may be, but an opportunity will be afforded the author to prepare or have prepared, suitable drawings.

Each competitor is requested to send in a short description of his design and to state clearly the material which he would use in its erection, together with a statement of cost. The experts will have the right to correct the estimated cost placed on any design as may appear to them just. The above statement is to be printed in the pamphlet along with the selected design together with the name of the author and his business address.

The following is a statement of the classes of buildings which are required to meet the wants of the average congregations in each of the classes in which it has been thought well to divide church buildings.

1st. Country church to seat from 150 to 200 persons, with one room to be used as vestry and library. Church to be heated with stoves.

2nd. Village church, capacity 250 to 300 persons, with one room to be used as vestry and library. Church to be heated with stoves.

3rd. Large village church, seating 350 to 400, with vestry and library. To be furnace heated.

4th. Small town church, seating 350 to 400 persons, with vestry or school room.

5th. Large town church, with seating capacity of from 500 to

600, with vestry, library, school room and kitchen.

6th. City church, seating from 600 to 1,000, with vestry, library, school room and kitchen.

7th. Large city church, seating from 1,000 to 1,300, with vestry, library, school rooms and kitchen.

In the last four clauses the designer will himself settle the method of heating and arrange same.

All designs to be sent in on or before the 14th day of March, 1891, addressed to the Registrar of the Ontario Association of Architects, Toronto.





<article title="The Quebec City Hall" author="">THE <building>QUEBEC CITY HALL</building>

T

HE largely advertised competition for the Quebec city hall culminated in the sending in of only six sets of designs—-three from Quebec, and one each from Ottawa, Woodstock, and Buffalo.

This result might easily have been predicted. The conditions imposed an enormous and useless amount of labor—eighth scale plans from sub-basement to roof, the latter to show "projections of eaves, skylights, scuttles, cresting, etc., in full ;" sections of every separate portion of the buildings; isometrical elevations; isometrical or aerial perspectives; complete specifications; heating apparatus, size of mains, number and area of radiators.

Fatherly advice is given upon the minutest points, even to the blind nailing of the flooring boards; and then to crown all, this complicated mass of bricks and mortar, aggregating more than 2,000,000 cubic feet, is to be built for $200,000—less than ten. cents a cubic toot—a sum insufficient for anything but the simplest commercial or residential building. We feel safe in affirming that twenty cents per foot will be found too small an allowance for the erection of a building of the character stipulated. No wonder the hundred eager applicants for copies of the conditions dwindled down to a corporal's guard.

The manner of adjudicating upon the designs is worthy of note. The designs were sent in under motto, of course, but oh, ye guileless architects, they were to be exhibited according to the conditions to the public for a week or more before the committee of adjudication began their work as assessors. The Mayor the Chairman of the Road Committee, and the City Engineer selected the jury, appointing Mr. <person>E. Tach</person>e, of Quebec, ' artist architect," Deputy Minister Crown Lands; Mr. <person>Victor Roy</person>, of Montreal, "practical architect"; and Mr. <person>H. Stavely</person>, architect.

The first prize was awarded <person>Mr. Charest</person>, Quebec; second, <firm>Porter & Son</firm>, Buffalo; and third, <person>Mr. Peachy</person>, Quebec.

According to the newspaper report, the first prize was awarded because it seemed "to have enlisted the sympathy of the jury by coming nearest to the mark in point of probable cost," although "popular suffrage seemed to point" to another design which the jury could not go on account of the probable cost.

Here, then, is another lesson for architects. When will the members of the profession learn to have sufficient respect to ignore all invitations to compete which are not drawn up in a proper manner? The labor imposed by the conditions in this case was excessive—practically preparing drawings sufficient for reception of tenders, the value, (even reckoning on a cost of only $200,000), being quite $5,000 —while the other two prize designs were to be retained, the premiums only being paid for them.

The result also proves how utterly useless it is to fix a limit of cost which is absurdly below what the work can be done for. In this case the jury selected the design which most nearly approx

