<doctype type="text">December, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	139



color of the stone varies from a blue to a deep gray, that of Chambord specially Unites many qualities of a good free stone.

In concluding ibis report, we would suggest to the Province of Quebec Association of Architects the formation of a collection of stones not only from Lake St. John region, but also from the quarries of the Maritime Provinces and the Dominion in general.

	Signed.	<person>CHARLES. BAILLARGE</person>.

		<person>F. H. BERLINGUET</person>

		<person>D. OUELLET.</person>





<article title="St.George's Patent vitrified tile sectional sewer" author="">ST. GEORGE'S PATENT VITRIFIED TILE SECTIONAL

SEWER.

T HE following particulars relate to inventions of <person>Mr. St. George</person>, City  Surveyor of Montreal, to be used on the construction of sewers, and for which patents have recently been granted in the United States and Canada.

The invention has for its object to produce a sewer which shall be more













































































easily constructed and more durable than those now built up in brickwork, and have its constituent parts more easily handled and set in place than lengths of complete cross sections of such conduits, and be strongest at the points at which most resistance must be offered to the pressure of the earth The sewer is composed of oval cross sections of four pieces, viz the invert, the two curved sides and the top—all these breaking joint at their longitudinal junctions. The invert is flat at the bottom, and has the skewbacks formed by its upper edges hollowed for the reception of the curved edges of the sections forming the Sides, which at their junction with the invert are given such increased strength and thickness as will prevent the pressure of the earth from breaking them in These sides have their top edges slightly sloping outward, and affording with a flange formed on each side section and projecting outward and above them, a continuous socket joint to receive the top arch, the edges of which correspond to the tops of the side sections. thereby protecting the branch or springing of the arch, i. e.. the point at which it is weakest, and especially so against external pressure. When any connection is to be made, such as a house drain with the sewer, one of the Side sections (having formed in it an opening, which will serve either for a right or left junction, and a rim formed round it by the thickening of the substance of which the sewer is composed), may be substituted for a side piece of the ordinary type.

The vitrified tile will be from 2 to 2 1/2 inches thick, and will cost about from $4.50 to $5 per lineal yard.























































St. George's patent cast iron street gulley is made of cast iron, circular in form, twenty-four inches in diameter and upwards, the bottom section having a flat bottom, eighteen inches deep. Upon this is another section flanged with the sewer connection cast in it, also the same depth, and upon

this another section of the same depth flat at the top to receive the open mouthed gulley, which is made from any depth from nine inches upwards to suit the depth of the watercourse, forming a part of the sidewalk. A manhole cover is formed in it, which is keyed to prevent its being tampered with Through this manhole cover men can descend to clean out the cesspit, or it can be cleaned by means of scoops. The whole gulley is tour feet six inches deep from the watercourse level to the bottom of the cess-pit. The advantages over a brick gulley are that the material is imperishable and is easily built and handled.





































































The following tables of comparative cost will be of interest.

	Portland cement, 2 bbls , at $3.00			$600

	Labor. 7 days. at $1.25			875

	Carter, 2 days, at $2.00			4.00

	Bricklayer, 2 days, at $3.50			7.00

	Bricks, bevelled, 750, at $11.00 per 1,000 		..  	8.62

	Bricks, squares, 250, at $10,00 per 1,000 			2.50

	Sand, 1 cartload			  75

	Bottom stone for foundation, 20 ft at 2 cents 	. 	4.00

	Grate stone		3.60

	Iron grating		7.00

	Cast iron Shedd's trap		1.50

	Total cost	$53.72

	Cast iron pipe in sections, 1,100 lbs. at 2 cents per lb	$22.00

	Labor, in setting and digging, 6 days at $1.25	 7.50

	Carter, 1 day, at $2.00. 	 2 00

	Cast iron Shedd's trap	..	.	1.50

	Royalty	. .	.	.	5 00

			Total cost .		. $38.00



Or a difference in cost of say $14.00 in favor of the iron gulley. It is presumed that the cast iron will last for at least twenty years as against the four or five years service of the brick, added to which is its improved appearance and the fact of its being perfectly watertight.

The following cities have them in use. Montreal, Quebec, Toronto, Ottawa, St. Henry, St. Cunegonde, Cote St. Louis, Cote St. Antoine, Owen Sound, Peterboro'.

