January, 1890

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



morning when few persons were on the streets. Had it occurred a few hours later, there can be little doubt serious injury, if not loss of life, would have resulted Considering the large amount of galvanized iron now used on buildings, largely in the way of ornament, the building inspector should see that it is substantially put up, and that pedestrians are in no danger of having it carried down upon them by a sudden gust of wind.



W

E have received a letter signed "Draughtsman," complaining that many architects do not pay their assistants promptly. The letter is somewhat lengthy, and we cannot see that its publication would benefit anyone. Draughts-men are not obliged to give their services to an architect who is not able and willing to pay a fair equivalent for them, and pay promptly.



T

 HE success attending the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> has led some Montreal architects to advocate the establishment of a similar organization for the Province of Quebec. The laws relating to architects, builders and proprietors in that province are said not to be satisfactory or specific, while the necessity for the elevation of the profession is generally recognized. There is but one obstacle of any importance which is likely to stand in the way of the successful formation of such an Association as now exists in Ontario. That obstacle is professional jealousy. If our eastern friends can get this out of the way, we doubt very much whether anything else will rise up to hinder the object. The want of fraternity among the architects of the Province of Quebec can hardly be greater than existed in Ontario prior to the birth of the O. A. A. Associations of this kind promote acquaintanceship among members of the profession, and in many cases tend to remove hastily-formed unfavorable impressions of the character of a brother architect. It would give us very great pleasure indeed to see an earnest attempt made for the organization of an Architectural Association for the Province of Quebec.



T

HE Committee recently sent from Toronto to visit the technical schools of the United States for the purpose of acquiring information which should prove valuable in the establishing of such schools in the City of Toronto, have presented their report. From what they have observed of the methods of conducting such schools in the United States, they are convinced that it would be unwise to vest the management in the Toronto Free Library Board, as has been proposed. The language of the report on this point is as follows "We think that the Board of Management of these schools should be a distinct and separate body from the Free Library Board, and so constituted as to be a representative board of citizens, who from their education, tastes, or other special qualifications would be more likely to make the enterprise a success." Notwithstanding that fault has been found with the Committee for the above recommendation, we believe it to be a wise one. The Free Library Board has quite enough to occupy its attention in properly discharging the duties for which it was appointed. Technical schools, to be successful, should be directed by persons familiar with, and specially interested in, the branches of special knowledge proposed to be imparted. To place the management in the hands of any other class of men would in all probability result in the adoption of a blundering policy, and the exhausting of the funds provided by the city without anything useful being accomplished.



A

 s may be seen by our advertising columns, the City of Quebec proposes to build a City Hall, and to that end has asked for competitive designs. The conditions plainly show that a good design is not required for the City Hall of Quebec. If the obtaining of a good design was really the object of the competitions the conditions would be very different, It should not be necessary for us to point out that architects worthy of the name will not send in designs to become the property of any building committee on the payment of a premium, or a paltry $100.00. It Is perfectly true that there are men who call themselves architects who will send in designs, but their designs are

generally such that it would be much less expensive and better policy to have nothing whatever to do with them or their authors. A very objectionable feature of the conditions is that wherein the city reserves the right to withhold from the winner of the competition the superintendence of the work. It would likewise have tended very much to the success of the competition if the selection of the experts to judge the plans had been made, and their names published in the advertisement. Before deciding to engage in a competition involving so much labor and expense, architects would like to be in a position to judge of the capabilities of those who are to sit in judgment on their work. If the city of Quebec desires to enlist the best efforts of the ablest architects in this competition, it will be necessary to amend the conditions.



A

 CORRESPONDENT, whose letter we published in our November issue, on the subject of "The ability of architects to estimate" made statements which are not warranted by facts, excepting in the proceedings of men not properly qualified to practice as architects. We published the letter, because we do not vouch for the opinions expressed by our correspondents but leave it to our readers to correct misstatements, if they consider it necessary. Every properly qualified architect is thoroughly able to estimate approximately the cost of his design, but it is not every client who is satisfied, and instead, he prefers to try whether he cannot get a price "by tendering," that will include a good deal more work than his architect tells him can be done for the money. Our reason for alluding to this letter is the statement concerning the custom in England, which is misleading. Builders do not there "engage the services of a professional building surveyor to take out quantities," nor does the architect charge builders for copies of the lithographed bill of quantities, to cover the expenses. It remains with the client to agree to the preparation of a bill of quantities, and he pays the cost of the lithographing or printing as well as the architect's or surveyor's fee for its preparation. Quantity surveying has become a separate profession in England within the last few years. But even this arrangement does not better the style of tenders, and reference to the English journals shows how erratic are contractors in the matter of valuing labor and material. The question is not the ability of architects so much as the want of system of pricing among builders. We are always glad to hear our subscribers' views on current topics, even though we may not be able to coincide with them.



B

 ADLY constructed scaffolds continue to be erected, and workmen continue to risk their lives upon them. A scaffold of this character gave way in Toronto a few days ago, while three men were working upon it. Two of them fell a distance of twenty-five feet and received serious, and perhaps fatal injuries. The other grasped a window sill and saved himself. The City Council has appointed a Committee to consider means to prevent the erection of insecure scaffolds. The Committee has held several meetings, and has discussed the matter with representatives of the workmen and the Contractors' Association. The workmen ask for the appointment of an inspector to examine every scaffold erected. The contractors are opposed to this course, but the Committee seems disposed to act upon the suggestion. The number of accidents by falling scaffolds last year, and the serious character of the results, makes it desirable that precautions should be taken to lessen the danger from this cause. We desire to reiterate our opinion, however, that unless the Council are prepared to appoint at least half-a-dozen inspectors, and furnish each with a horse and rig, a system of inspection which will be in anywise efficient cannot be carried out. The remedy for the present state of things is in the hands of the workmen themselves, They should be as competent as any inspector to decide whether or not the scaffolds they are called to work upon have been properly constructed. Let them refuse to work upon insecure scaffolds, and give the contractors to understand that actions for damages will follow every accident caused by scaffolds falling. The appointment of scaffold inspectors should relieve contractors from the responsibility which they are at present under when an accident occurs. The

