	<doctype type="text">October, 1890	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER	113



ARTICLE VIII—It shall be the duty of the Secretary-Treasurer to keep the minutes of the meetings and conduct the correspondence of the Association subject to the Council, to collect all funds and disburse the same on the order of the Council, when countersigned by the Chairman. In the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his inability to act, the Council shall have power to elect an assistant to supply his place pro tem.



Moved by <person>Mr. Clift, </person>seconded by <person>Mr. Bulman</person>, that this article be made to read thus " It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the minutes of the meetings in English and French, and conduct the correspondence of the Association subject to the Council; to collect all funds and band them to the Treasurer, taking his receipt for the same. In the absence of the Secretary, or in the event of his inability to act, the Council shall have the power to elect an assistant to supply his place pro tem. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive all funds, giving a receipt for them to the Secretary, keeping proper accounts of the same. All disbursements to be made on the order of the Council when countersigned by the President and Secretary." Carried.

ARTICLE IX—Two Auditors shall be appointed at each annual meeting to audit the books of the Association and report at the next annual meeting.

Agreed on unanimously.

ARTICLE X.—Should any member fail for one year to pay his dues, the Council may at its, discretion drop his name from the roll after due notice, and he shall be re-admitted upon payment of all arrears.



Agreed on unanimously.



ARTICLE XI.—Should any charge of professional misconduct be made against a member, it must be in writing and signed by the person making it The Council at its next meeting must take the matter up. but if the majority of the entire Council find the charge frivolous it shall drop. If the Council decide to further investigate, two weeks notice shall be sent to the incriminated member with a copy of the charge against him, and he shall be given an opportunity to be heard in his defence, If the Council, by a full majority, find the charge substantiated, they shall at their discretion censure the offending member or demand his resignation, and in the latter case, if the resignation be not forthcoming within one week, the said member shall be expelled The Council may also take cognizance of, and deal in a similar manner with conduct on the part of any member derogatory to his professional character when the same shall be of public notoriety, even though no special charge may have b-en made The decision of the Council in all such cases shall be final and absolute, and shall be communicated to the Association at its next meeting.



Agreed on unanimously.



ARTICLE XII.—The Constitution may be amended by a two-thirds vote of the votes cast at any annual meeting, or at a special meeting called for the purpose Notice in writing of such proposed amendment must be given to the Secretary not less than thirty days before the meeting. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of such notice to each member of the Association at least fifteen days previous to the meeting. Any member who from unavoidable circumstances is unable to attend a meeting of the Association at which it is proposed to amend the Constitution, may vote by proxy The authorization to vote by proxy must be made in writing on a form prepared for ihe purpose Such authorization must be made within one month of the date of the meeting.



Agreed on unanimously.

This finished the discussion on the Constitution, which was adopted as amended.

BY-LAWS.

SECTION I.—The Annual Meeting of the Association shall be held on the second Thursday in September, or at such other time as the Council may appoint. At this meeting the annual report shall be submitted together with the Treasurer's statement of accounts duly audited The place of meeting to be determined at the previous annual or at a general meeting by a majority of members present.



Moved by <person>Mr. Perrault</person>, seconded by <person>Mr. Doran</person>, that the annual meeting of the Association shall be held on the 2nd Thursday in September, "or at," etc. Carried.



SECTION II —A special meeting of the Association may be called at any time by the Council, or upon a requisition to the Council signed by ten members in good standing. Fifteen days notice of special meetings shall be given to the members. The business to be considered at such meeting to be stated on the notice. None but members shall be allowed to vote at any meeting of the Association

The Council shall meet quarterly at such time and place as may be agreed upon. Special meetings may be held at any time on the call of the President, or on the requisition of three members of the Council.



Agreed on unanimously.

SECTION III.—Fifteen of the members shall form a quorum for the transaction of business at meetings of the Association, and five shall be a quorum of the Council.



Agreed on unanimously.

SECTION IV.—The meetings of this Association shall be conducted in accordance with "Todd's Parliamentary Practice.'

Agreed on unanimously.

SECTION V —At the annual meeting the officers and three members of the Council shall be elected by a majority vote. The other three members of the Council shall consist of the senior members of the Association who shall not have already served on the Council. Should the election, from any reason, not be held at the annual meeting. it shall take place at a special meeting held for that purpose. Vacancies during the year shall be filled by the Council from amongst the qualified members of the Association."

Moved by Mr. Clift, seconded by Mr. Doran, that the second clause be made to read thus: "The other three members of the Council shall consist of the three senior members of the Association who have been practising the longest space of time, and who shall not have already served on the Council." Carried.

SECTION VI.—AII papers, books and other records shall at all times be open to the inspection of members of the Association.

The words "at all times" were unanimously agreed to be struck out.

SECTION VII.—The annual fees for the different classes shall be as follows. Members, $20; Student Associates, $5: Honorary Members, $10. Those fees to be paid not later than the day of

each year. Members admitted subsequent to the period fixed by Article III of the Constitution shall also pay a registration lee of and Student Associates a matriculation fee of $10 Members in arrears shall not be entitled to vote at the annual meeting.



Moved by Mr. Doran, seconded by <person>Mr. Peachy</person>, that this section be made to read thus "The annual fees of the different classes shall be as follows Members, $10; Student Associates, $3; Honorary Members, $5; those fees to be paid not later than the 1st January of each year. Members joining within the delay fixed by Article III of the Constitution. shall pay a registration fee of $10, and members admitted thereafter, $25. Student associates shall pay a matriculation fee of $10. Members in arrears," etc.

SECTION VIII—The Council shall appont each year a board of three examiners, who shall meet semi-annually at Montreal and Quebec alter. nately. Candidates as Student Associates shall be admitted by the Council if graduates in Arts or Science of any University in Her Majesty's Dominions, or of the Polytechnic School of Montreal, on registering their names with the Secretary and paying the matriculation fee. All other candidates shall present themselves before the Board of Examiners after having given one month's notice to the Secretary (accompanied by the matriculation fee), and shall be required to pass in the following subjects: English or French Composition, Arithmetic, Mensuration, Algebra, Geometry Freehand and Linear Drawing. Student Associates who shall have served five years with members, shall be admitted as members on passing the final examination in the subjects to be prescribed by the Council The Council shall admit to membership all members of the Royal Institute of British Architects, also members of Associations of Architects of the sister provinces on their presenting themselves with their credentials. Architects not members of these Associations, who shall have practiced for five years, shall be admitted without serving as students, but shall be required to pass the final examinations. Registration fees must be paid to the Secretary previous to the final examination, but one-half will be returned to unsuccessful candidates.



Moved by Mr. Doran, seconded by <person>Mr. Taylor</person>, that the clause reading: "The Council shall admit," etc.,.be made to read thus:

"The Council shall have power to admit to membership all members of Associations of Architects tn the sister provinces, also members of the R.I.B.A, and of foreign Associations of Architects of equal standing on their presenting their credentials." Carried.

SECTION IX.—The Association may admit as honorary members such persons as are qualified by Art'cle III of the Constitution who shall have been proposed at a previous meeting The vote to be by ballot, one contrary vote in every five to exclude One week' notice of proposals must be sent by the Secretary to each member of the Association accompanied by an initialed ballot. Members of the Council unable to be present may return the ballot sealed, which shall then be deposited with those of members present. No one shall be proposed as an honorary member without his consent in writing being signified to the Secretary. The form of proposals and ballots shall be prescribed by the Association.



Agreed on unanimously.



SECTION X — The ordinary travelling and hotel expenses of officers and committees attending business meetings shall be defrayed out of funds in the treasury of the Association subject to the approval of the Council.

Agreed on unanimously.

SECTION XI.— The By-laws may be amended by a two-thirds vote of votes cast at the annual meeting, or at a special meeting called for the purpose. Notice in writing of such proposed amendment must be given to the Secretary, not less than thirty days before the meeting. 1 he Secretary shall transmit a copy of such notice t~ each member of the Association, at least fifteen days previous to the meeting.

Agreed on unanimously.



This finished the discussion on the Constitution and by-laws. They were then unanimously agreed on as amended.

The Chairman then requested that the members present sign the roll book. under the following heading, as moved by <person>Mr. Clift </person>and seconded by <person>Mr. Bulman</person>: "We the following architects practising in the Province of Quebec, do hereby agree to become members of The Province of Quebec Association of Architects, and also agree to conform to the Constitution and By-laws of the Association."

All the architects present then came forward and signed their names.

The Chairman announced that the election of officers would now take place.

It was moved by Mr. Clift and seconded by <person>Mr. Doran </person>that Article 6 of the Constitution and Section 5 of the By-laws be suspended for this meeting only, and all the members of the Council for this year be elected by ballot. Carried.

The Chairman appointed Messrs. <person>Stavely</person> and <person>Gordon </person>scrutineers, and having a pressing engagement, was forced to vacate the chair.

On motion, <person>Mr. Nelson </person>was asked to take the chair.

To facilitate matters and hurry through the work, the Chairman elected two others scrutineers, viz., Messrs. <person>Raza </person>and <person>Walbank, </person>thus making two to each ballot.

The scrutineers reported to the Secretary and he to the meeting, the result of the balloting, when the following officers were declared duly elected

President, <person>J. W. Hopkins</person>, R.C.A.; ist Vice-President, <person>F. X. Berlinguet </person>2nd Vice-President, <person>Victor Roy </person>Members of

