



<doctype type="colophon">VOL.111.—No.I.TORONTO,CANADA,JANUARY,PRICE20CENTS 	1890	$2.00 PER YEAR	



Canadian Architect and Builder,

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS,

PUBLISHED ON THE 15TH OF EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



 SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office



ADVERTISEMENTS

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising shouId reach the office of publication not 1ater than the 12th day of the month and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





<assoc>The Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its paper.





VOLUME III.

T

HE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER enters with the present number upon the third year of its existence. A comparison of this number with the initial issue of two years ago, demonstrates the fact that a considerable measure of progress has been male. The past year was very satisfactory in its results, the number of subscribers having doubled, and the advertising patronage having largely increased also. There is every reason to hope that the progress which has marked the past, will be maintained throughout the present and future volumes. The publication of a weekly intermediate edition (the CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD) devoted to the object of supplying contractors and supplymen with advance information regarding contracts open to tender, will be commenced shortly. No effort will be spared to make this intermediate edition of great value to subscribers. We desire to enlist the interest and help of every reader, and especially of every architect, for the attainment of this object. We tender our acknowledgements to all who have assisted us in any way in the past, and trust that their number will be largely augmented in the future. We solicit for the firms who advertise in these pages, the patronage of our readers. So far as we know, they are among the most progressive and reliable men in their respective lines of business. Their advertisements constitute a directory of almost everything required in the erection and equipment of buildings of whatever

character. Nowhere else can the architect and contractor find such a ready reference. We trust that they will make good use of it, and not forget, as too frequently happens, to mention in their correspondence with advertisers, the source of their information.



A

 PROJECT is on foot in London, England, for the erection of a tower which is to reach, if not to heaven, at least a long distance skywards. The originator of the undertaking is <person>Mr. Edward Watkin</person>, and the proposed site of the structure, the banks of the Thames. A London despatch dated the 2nd Inst., says Two hundred and forty-eight architects and engineers, sixteen of whom are Americans and Canadians and sixteen Frenchmen and Germans, are designing plans for the tower. Many novelties are produced in the designs.



T

HE City of Montreal has decided to expend large sums of money during the present year on pavements which are intended to be of a permanent character It is pleasing to notice the determination evinced to have better roadways, yet in our judgment the question of what shall be done with electric wires should first be settled. If they are to go underground, some permanent scheme for their accommodation and proper maintenance should be devised and acted upon at once. If this course be not taken, we shall no doubt find that the costly pavements which it is proposed to put down, will fail to be permanent, but will be destroyed by being constantly torn up to enable repairs to be made to the underground conductors.



W

E extend a very hearty welcome to the new edition of our elder cousin, the American Architect and Building News, and at the same time we must pay a tribute to the enterprising spirit of its promoters. The "International Edition" aims at the reproduction of a great many valuable drawings and the illustration of buildings ancient and modern, that will prove very servicable to the readers, at an outlay of a very large sum of money, which necessarily makes it a somewhat expensive journal. All professional journals are published for the benefit of the profession they represent. They require the support of that profession, and in order to be a success, must receive it ; it is therefore to the interest of every man to do his utmost for the journal devoted to the interests of his business, whether that business is professional, merchantile or mechanical.



I

 T is so seldom that buildings in Canada are subjected to high wind pressure, that it is to be feared sufficient care is not always taken in their construction to insure safe resistance to such pressure. The unusually heavy winds prevailing during the last few weeks, have caused the partial collapse of several structures in this city. In one instance a brick gable of a new church crashed through the roof of an adjoining dwelling, in another about eighty feet of galvanized iron work stretched across the front of a block of stores with a view to their adornment, fell in a mass to the ground on one of the principal thoroughfares. Fortunately the accident happened early in the

