<doctype type="text">	114	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	October, 1890



Council, <person>A. C. Hutchinson</person>, R.C.A., <person>A. F. Dunlop</person>, R.C.A., <person>A.

Raza</person>, <person>A. T. Taylor</person>, F.R.I.B.A., <person>M. Perrault</person>, <person>J. F. Peachy</person>;

Treasurer, <person>W. E. Doran </person>; Secretary, <person>C. Clift.

</person>Moved by Mr. Taylor and seconded by Mr. Dunlop, that Messrs. <person>J. Nelson </person>and <person>C. Baillairge </person>be the auditors for the ensuing year. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Clift and seconded by Mr. Perrault, that we adjourn until 10 o'clock am. to-morrow (Saturday). Carried.

SECOND DAY.

The adjourned meeting resumed labor at 10:30 a.m., the President, Mr. Hopkins, taking the chair.

It was moved by <person>Mr. Oulette </person>and seconded by Mr. Perrault, that the place of next annual meeting be Quebec. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Clift and seconded by Mr. Hutchinson, that the Act of Incorporation be left to the Council, and that the Council be instructed to at once prepare an Act to lay before the Government. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Clift and seconded by the entire meeting, that the thanks of this Association be tendered the Province of Ontario Association of Architects and their Secretary, <person>Mr. Townsend</person>, for the assistance they have rendered us in the formation of ours. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Perrault and seconded by <person>Mr. Staveley</person>, that a vote of thanks be tendered Mr. Hutchinson and Mr. Nelson for kindly officiating as Chairmen at the present meeting. Carried.

Mr. Taylor then moved that this <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects </assoc>having learned that it is the intention of the Montreal Board of Trade to throw the proposed new building open to competition, and that they have requested five architects in the States to send in designs, granting them $300 each towards their expenses, and that they propose throwing the competition open to all other architects without payment of any expenses, thus discriminating against the Canadian architects in favor of the five American ones, that this matter be referred to the members of the Council resident in Montreal to make immediate enquiries as to these facts, and take such action thereon as they may deem fit. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Jos. Verne, and seconded by Mr. <person>J. Z. Resther</person>, that the whole matter of competitions be left to the Council to take action as they may deem fit. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Perrault, and seconded by Mr. Dunlop, that we the Architects of the Province of Quebec now assembled in convention, being satisfied that the CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD affords us direct communication with the contractors, Resolved, that we pledge our support to it by using its columns when calling for tenders. Carried unanimously.

Moved by <person>Mr. Gendron </person>and seconded by <person>Mr. Lesage</person>, that the thanks of this Association be tendered Messrs. Nelson, Taylor, Hutchinson, Doran, Dunlop, Raza, J. B. Resther, Clift and Hodson, the Organizing Committee. Carried.

Moved by Mr. Ouelette, and seconded by Mr. Perrault, that the minutes of this meeting be printed in English and French, and sent to every architect in this Province. Carried.

The President then asked if there was any further business to bring before the meeting. There being no response, the meeting closed by the visiting architects being invited to a drive and luncheon.

DRIVE AND LUNCHEON.



The drive around the city was very much enjoyed by all, but especially by the visitors from Quebec, who were thus given the opportunity of witnessing the rapid progress which Montreal is making and the handsome specimens of modern architecture lately erected or in process of erection. The luncheon provided by direction of the Montreal architects at the Windsor hotel, was of a character which left nothing to be desired. Considerable time was spent in discussing its merits, following which came the "feast of reason and flow of soul."

The Chairman The cast which I now have the honor of proposing, is one which I am sure all our Montreal friends will drink with the greatest zest. We are very glad t welcome those who visit upon this occasion, and I think we happen to strike upon about as many genial men as we could possibly meet. (Cheers). In our proceedings, in the matter of professional etiquette, there has not been a hitch all through, and I think the greatest cordiality prevails. and I hope it may continue. Without any further comment, I give you, Our Cofreres from Quebec.' (Cheers, and singing "They are jolly good fellows' ).

<person>Mr. Berlinguet</person>, speaking in French, returned thanks on behalf of the members of the Association from Quebec. He expressed the hope that the society had been formed on a solid foundation. He called upon <person>Mr. Baillairge </person>to state to the assembly in English what he had said in French

Mr. Baillairge Mr. Berlinguet has just been addressing you in a very eloquent manner. He says that he is unaccustomed to public speaking. However, he seems to have acquired a command of language by attending meetings of the Board of Trade, and he and Mr. Peachy, as you will understand just now when you hear him, belonging to the city council are able to express their thoughts fluently Architects, as a rule, are not much given to public speaking. I sincerely thank you for the manner in which you have received this toast, and of course my feeling is participated in by all the Quebec members. I thank you heartily for the cordiality and princely nature of your reception. I think that the Association, as Mr. Berlinguet says, has been started on a good basis, and that it will increase in strength. Many of you may not be aware that about twenty-five years ago I formed one of a deputation from Quebec, and a meeting was held, I think in the Mechanics Hall, with a view to form an association of architects at that time, but we were not successful. I suppose we were not numerous enough

to combine. I feel satisfied that on this occasion our friends will be more successful. (Cheers). Mr Baillairge then spoke in French.

The Chairman The next toast is one that affects us all as a body It is "The success of the Institution which we have this day inaugurated." I think we have done our work thoroughly, and as Mr. Berlinguet says, the society has been established on a solid basis" I am in hopes that when we meet again, about this or any other festive board, we shall have the same feeling that we have done a good week's work, at any rate a very good days work. I am sure that nothing will give all of us greater pleasure than to find that we are helping one another, It may induce a great many to join

—perhaps not all—but I am of the opinion that it will show the younger men that there is something to be gained by pursuing a straightforward, honorable course, and I think it will be an incentive to them to study hard and fit themselves for a position which will not only be satisfactory to themselves, but which will make them respected by their employers and the public generally (Cheers)

<person>Mr. Roy </person>commenced to speak in French, but on being requested to address the meeting in English, said To speak in both languages is a difficult task for a French Canadian who is accustomed to speak only in his mother tongue.

<person>Mr. Brown </person>Then talk in your fathers language.

Mr. Roy Or to speak in any other than his father's language either. I am greatly pleased to see how this new institution has been established in one day We have managed to unite here nearly forty members of the profession, and the membership will increase rapidly in the future. (Cheers.) But do not imagine that our work is at an end when the Association is organized. Far from it. We are only commencing, and before next year is over, all our tariffs will be established on a good basis, all the measurements which cause so much annoyance to contractors and architects and proprietors, shall he settled on a basis which cannot be understood in two ways, which will put an end to all this trouble that has existed up to the present time Our next work at the next annual convocation I should like to be the bringing about of a conference of all the architects on this side of the Atlantic This may appear to some of you a difficult thing to accomplish, but the architects of Montreal can do it if they try, and I believe they will. It would have the effect of showing the public that on this continent the noble Association of Architects, which has been unknown up to this day. has become an important institution. We have now forty members, next year we will number seventy-five With that membership we ought to be able to collect enough money during the year to invite most of the architects of this continent to a meeting in Montreal, the mother city of the Dominion. (Cheers ) Our Association would be the first on this side of the Atlantic to attempt such a thing. It would bring great credit to the architects of the Province of Quebec and it would unite all architects—American, English, French—architects of any nation, for I maintain that an architect cannot have a nationality. He does not gather his ideas here, he receives them from above. Mr. Berlinguet told you that he first derived his information from God, the Architect of the Universe, and then from Adam, but there is a third architect, whose name he forgot to mention—Noah. (Laughter.) To my mind the first real architect was Noah. It was he that first constructed a naval building.

A voice That was a ship

Mr. Roy It was not a ship, it was a floating house.

Mr. Brown He watered the stock.

Mr. Roy. I am delighted to see the architects of this Province say

"unite," and to know that everyone of us is ready and animated by the same spirit and determined to achieve success (Applause ) There can be no doubt that we will succeed, then we will establish the Association on a sound basis, and next year I hope we shall undertake to have a conference of all the architects on this side of the Atlantic. Success is certain if we are united, and it will be a credit to this city to hold the first international gathering of the kind. I thank you for your kind attention, and I hope we shall always continue to endeavor to increase our membership and to carry out the plans for which we have united.

Mr. Roy followed in French.

Mr. Hutchinson, R.C.A. on rising to speak was received with cheers. He said I did not expect to be called upon to speak at this stage of the proceedings. I can only say that I feel very proud this day to see so many of our architects meeting together for a common object—advancing the interests of the architects and forming an Association for the advancement of all the interests connected with building This it has been my wish for many a year to see, and I have talked to many of my cofreres about it in the past, but the time never seemed opportune until the present Starting the Association as we have done, with such a large number of members, I think its success is assured However, that success will depend a great deal on he members themselves, in working out the objects of the Association and getting into fair working order. There may be some friction at the outset, but I hope that members will drop anything that might appear harsh or personal to themselves, and do everything that they can for the advancement of the interests of the Association (Cheers) While I look upon the formation of this Association as a most desirable thing in the interests of the profession, I think that among other things the bringing of us together as architects in a social capacity is one of the best objects that we could have in view (Applause ) I have practiced my profession in Montreal for a number of years—not so many years as some of my cofreres who are present, but a quarter of a century now, and this is the first time that I have met in a social capacity with any of my cofreres I hope from year to year that we will meet in this social capacity and form friendships and make acquaintances among our members, some of whom we have hardly known to speak to before. I also look to another object that the Association should have in view, and it is one that I have had in my thoughts for some time as to how it should he brought about In the formation of this Society I see some hope of that project being carried Out I refer to making provision for affording the means to young men to study the profession of architecture in Canada. (Cheers ) I mean to say specially, that up to the present time we have had no means of giving any young man who wishes to learn the profession, a systematic training It is true that young men may enter the office of an architect and spend a few years there, and pick up a knowledge of drawing and of architecture as far as the means at his command will enable him to do so, but as to any systematic teaching, it has been completely ignored—in fact, there are no means of providing it. I know that I have time after time refused young men whose parents or friends have begged me to take them into my office, for the purpose of teaching them architecture. I have been obliged invariably to refuse, for the simple reason that anyone actively engaged in the profession as I am has no time to teach. For my own part, however much I might desire to teach—and I may say that I would be very glad indeed to teach the art—it would be utterly impossible for me to do so and to carry on my business, and for that reason I have invariably refused to take any young

