

<doctype type="text"><article title="Some of the objects of an architectural sketch club" author="Spencer, John">SOME OF THE OBJECTS OF AN ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH

CLUB.*

By <person>JOHN SPENCER</person>.

Tis not our intention to name all the objects of such a club;



I

 we do not even claim that all those respecting which some remarks will be made, are principal ones.

The objects of a club are many ; those of an architectural sketch club are as many sided as are the study and practice of architecture. It may be proper to state that the term "club" denotes a gathering together of individuals for mutual profit and social intercourse. Let us look at the latter for a moment or two:

Architectural draughtsmen and designers, from the nature of their calling, have few opportunities for meeting together and forming friendships, except in the case of those who are working together in the same office, unless it be through the agency of a club. There they ought to be able to meet together, discuss among themselves such objects as may interest them in their daily work; talk over some of the difficulties they have to contend with in design, in construction, in business affairs, and seek advice and counsel from each other.

It is unnecessary to designate the means that may be taken to further social intercourse, as the tendency of all clubs is, perhaps, too much in that direction, further than to advise that it is good sometimes to gather together and relieve the routine of business by indulging in music, in all its branches, and to relax the mind by games of skill in which "mind will sharpen mind."

One great object at which this and other kindred clubs should aim, is to teach its members the value of architecture as a study. In this respect it is as wide and as deep as law or medicine ; as many sided as divinity; as entertaining as the productions of the best writers of fiction, and - as comprehensive as the history of the world, because the history of architecture is also the history of the world, from a social and religious standpoint.

The progress of architecture has been co-equal with the progress of the nations of the world ; as they have advanced, architectural skill has advanced ; as they have declined, the monuments of architecture have also declined ; because these statements are truisms, we are able in some measure to understand and to value the skill and energy of the natives who inhabited the banks of the Euphrates, the Nile, and the countries of Southern Europe.

It may be considered by some unnecessary for a practical architect to be acquainted with the history of his profession, but we venture to say that no man can excel as a designer who is not a master of the various styles of ancient and mediaeval architecture. We do not say that he must design in one style, and in that only or that he must copy the masterpieces of ancient art and skill ; but if he intends for instance, to design a gothic church, and to design it in the style prevailing in one period, he ought to know the difference between the detail of the twelfth century and that of the fourteenth ; how can he do this unless he has made a study of the history of architecture? In a new country like this it is impossible to pursue this study from existing examples. What is good, among its works, is the production of men who have made a study of architecture, and of some who have studied it from the monumental buildings of the old world from these buildings (their age being known) the detail of one period can be distinguished from that of another period. To such an extent is the history of nations bound up with the history of architecture, that it is now difficult to distinguish between the direct influence of the one upon the other. and the reflex influence of architecture upon nations.

In such a club as this, means should be taken to make amends for the want of ancient examples from which to study.

First—Books on architecture should be obtained ; books dealing with Egyptian, Grecian and Roman architecture; books full of information and details taken from the best of existing examples ; books dealing with gothic architecture in its many and diverse forms and styles ; books such as were produced by



*Essay read at the annual meeting of the <assoc>Denver Architectural Sketch Club</assoc>.

Welby Pugin, Billings, Brandon, Collins and many others. We urge this as an important part of an architectural education, because in too many cases it is neglected one result of this neglect is seen in the low estimation that is placed, in this country, on gothic architecture, because much of what is called " gothic" is incongruous in style, bad in detail, and lacks the symmetry and beauty of European gothic.

Second—Modern architecture should be studied from the buildings around and accessible to us, with a view of determining, by comparison, what is desirable, useful and pleasing. The eye ought to be trained to take in proportion, and instinctively what is noble and ignoble. We venture to suggest that, from time to time, some portion of a finished building be selected, a competition entered into by the members of the club, for the best measured drawing of such a building, together with a freehand sketch of same and a small prize awarded to the author of that which is considered to be the best; by such means as are now suggested, something will be done towards promoting the welfare of the club, and the mutual benefit of its members something done in the way of stimulus.

Third—Attention ought to be paid, not only to form and beauty, but also to construction and the proper use of materials. In regard to materials, designs should be made to suit the materials that are obtainable. In a church, which professes to gothic, wood should never be used for tracery and mullions; if you want to design in the gothic style, and can not afford to use stone for tracery in your windows, rather choose an earlier and simpler style, and by grouping your windows, avoid the use of wood in places where it is contrary to the spirit of the style. Without a knowledge of construction, an architect is like a ship without a rudder ; how can we promote this knowledge? Let us have friendly competitions, but not competitions in which we will be asked to produce for nothing buildings such as we are engaged in designing during office hours, and for which we expect to be paid; rather let them be of such a nature that they will incite us to activity because of the difference between the work in them and that of the office. It would not be amiss to have a competition for the best truss roof for a church, or for a building with a span of 50, 80 or 100 feet.

We must not forget that while Art is part of architecture, architecture is not painting or picture making. The man who can paint will find that he has an useful accomplishment, but we are not banded together in a painters' sketch club nor in a sculptors' club ; their arts are in many ways useful to an architect, but are not fundamental to him. No man can be an architect who can not draw intelligently and correctly. Our aim should be to see that every member is proficient in this respect. In some towns in England art classes have been established in which architects take a leading part, under the fostering care of the South Kensington Art Department. This is possible in every town in England. We know not what means are within reach in American cities ; but where such do not exist, or only partially exist, clubs like this should endeavor to do something to place within the reach of many the means of acquiring instruction in the principles of art, and especially art in its simpler forms.

We must not forget that while the architect desires to progress, he can only progress in the ratio of the taste of those for whom he caters ; hence a love of that which is beautiful must be inculcated in the minds of those who are outside the profession. The aim and object of an architectural sketch club should therefore be First, to develop the tastes and ideas of its members. Second, to promote outside of its ranks a love of that which is true and noble, by cultivating what Ruskin calls "the seven lamps of Sacrifice, Truth, Power, Beauty, Life, Obedience and Memory." We may not be able to establish a taste for mediaeval buildings; not be able to point to old Baronial mansions; not be able to see the stately beauties of feudal castles ; may not be able to point with the finger

"Where enthroned in adamantine state,

Proud of her bards, imperial Windsor sits,



but we can see buildings which have been raised by courage and industry, buildings in which skill and art are embodied, and from these we must draw the inspiration which will lead us to

