



<doctype type="text">pauperism if a nominal sum were charged, say enough to pay for attendance, towels and soap, while the swimming baths might be free during certain specified days of the week.



A

N architect who tries to do all his own designing, and to conscientiously superintend his own work, has his hands full indeed, It is useless to endeavor to disguise the fact that some one phase of his work must suffer if he has attained to a reasonably successful practice—successful in the sense that his income approaches in amount that of his peers in the profession of law or medicine. Either his designs will be commonplace and dull, lacking that element of progress which a growing man should evince, or his details will be stereotyped, the same year in and year out, such as succeeding generations of pupils have copied. and which might be labelled, "No. 1, newel for a house costing $5,000 No. 2, for one costing about $7,000," etc.; or his supervision of the work of the builder will be perfunctory of necessity, for every hour spent away from the office means an equivalent of time, after office hours, spent in the weary endeavor to keep abreast of his ever-increasing pile of drawings to be made or revised, correspondence to be answered, or builders' accounts adjusted. The tendency of the times, when everything is done with a feverish rush, is to divide business into specialties. There is not time for an architect nowadays to become a "good all-round man." By the time he became such he would be a hoary-headed patriarch, with one foot in the grave. The time is approaching when Canadian architects, if they will be abreast of the times and in a position to undertake the best work, must be prepared to pay such salaries as will command competent assistants in all branches of their work, or they must combine in partnership men trained in such specialties as design, construction, supervision and office management.



W

E are pleased to be able to lay before our readers a fairly complete report of the proceedings in connection with the organization of The Province of <assoc>Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>. We regret that owing to the inadequacy of our reporting facilities, a full translation of the speeches delivered in the French language cannot be given. We shall make the necessary provision in this respect on future occasions. The substance of these speeches has, however, been given. The length of the report has rendered necessary the omitting of a number of interesting articles on other subjects which otherwise would have appeared in this number. They will not suffer in interest however, by being held over for a subsequent issue. Lack of space and the late date at which the report of the meeting in Montreal reached us, renders impossible any lengthy comment upon the proceedings at the present time, but occasion will be found in the future to again refer to the subject. Meanwhile, we can only congratulate in the heartiest manner possible the architects of Quebec upon the success which has crowned their united efforts to bring into existence an organization designed to promote the interests of the noble profession in which they are engaged. Considering the large membership with which the newly formed Association enters upon its career, the unanimity which characterized the proceedings of the inaugural meeting, and the desire for harmonious and progressive action for the future marking the utterances of every speaker, there is little reason to fear that the Association will not live to achieve many if not all the desirable objects which its promoters design it should accomplish. The Ontario Association of Architects, we are quite sure, appreciate and reciprocate fully the many kindly sentiments expressed towards them by their brethren in the Province of Quebec, and the time will no doubt come in the near future when the members of the two organizations will know more of each other. To the Committee of Organization, Messrs. <person>J. Nelson</person>, <person>A. Raza</person>, <person>A. C. Hutchinson</person>, <person>J. B. Resther</person>, <person>J. W. Hopkins</person>, <person>A. F. Dunlop</person>, <person>W. E. Doran</person>, <person>C. Cliff</person>, and <person>A. P. Taylor</person>, are due in a very large measure, the credit for bringing about the union under such happy auspices of the architects of the Province of Quebec. They have accomplished a good work, which entitles them to the esteem of their professional brethren of this and future generations.



T

HE condition of affairs which has recently prevailed in connection with the water supply of the City of Toronto, is indeed of a serious character. That the city was in danger of being suddenly reduced to such an extremity, seems not to have been considered by the citizens to be possible, much less probable. Their refusal to vote the money for additional pumps would seem to show that they stood in no fear of a failure of the supply. The repeated endeavors of the Superintendent of the Waterworks Department to secure increased pumping capacity shows plainly enough that the situation of affairs was not unknown to him. The carelessness displayed by the contractor who drove a pile through the intake pipe, simply precipitated a crisis which sooner or later was certain to come. While the responsibility for the failure to provide the means to protect the city against a water famine clearly rests with the citizens themselves, who refused to authorize the appropriation of funds for

that object, the management of the Waterworks Department seems to be deserving of censure for having neglected for eight years the cleaning of the reservoir, It is impossible to say how much longer this necessary duty would have been deferred had not the reservoir been emptied by the inability of the pumps to keep up the supply, thereby revealing to public gaze the accumulated mass of filth of which it was the receptacle. It is impossible not to believe that sickness and death have been the result of this neglect in the past; let us hope that for the future the cleaning process will be performed at much shorter intervals, say once a year. There is little doubt that having had their eyes opened to the danger to which the city is exposed, the citizens will no longer refuse to authorize the expenditure necessary to insure an ample supply of water to meet all requirements. The present system of supply is a most expensive one, but so much of the city's money is invested in plant, etc., that nothing we suppose remains to be done but to increase the pumping facilities from time to time as the growth of population may demand. The idea of spending about $50,000 per year for all future time for the coal necessary to force the water uphill, not to mention salaries and other expenses incident to the operation of the pumping machinery, is not a pleasant one to contemplate from an economical standpoint. The belief is gaining ground that the city's interest would have been better served by the adoption of the plan presented some years ago for obtaining the necessary water supply from Lake Sirncoe. The first cost would certainly have been great, but the cost of subsequent operation would have been nothing as compared with the present system.





W

E are asked by an architect in a letter appearing in this issue above the nom de plume of "Five Per Cent," to express our opinion of the architect who pays commissions to those who bring work to his office and accepts commissions from contractors in return for specifying their goods. Our correspondent also wishes to know how long the Ontario Association of Architects would tolerate a man guilty of such practices. In reply we have simply to say that professional etiquette forbids an architect to adopt the trader's method of employing persons to drum up business for him. Apart altogether from the question of professional ethics, it is difficult to see how an architect could afford out of his commission of five per cent, to pay for such service, without resorting to dishonesty in some form or other. The person claiming to be an architect who will seek to enrich himself by accepting bribes in the shape of commissions from contractors, lacks the principle which distinguishes the honest from the dishonest man in every walk of life, and brings disgrace upon a noble profession. Undoubtedly it is the proprietor who suffers from such dishonorable practices, therefore one of the most important things to be considered in the employment of an architect should be the integrity of his character. So far as the Ontario Association of Architects is concerned, it is not disposed to tolerate unprofessional conduct on the part of its members. It must not be forgotten, however, that in the formation of the Association it was not possible to exclude any practicing architect. Consequently, it is more than probable that through the widely opened door there entered some whose code of practice is not what it should be. The weeding out process must begin at no distant day, but the eradication from the membership of the Association of all unworthy persons will be the work of time. Meanwhile, for the benefit of young architects and others who may be anxious to speedily attain to a large practice, it should be said that ultimate disappointment and failure is certain to be the reward of a departure from the honorable principles which have governed the practice of the great architects in all ages. Seeming prosperity may for a time attend such a departure, but the architect who is desirous of reaching a position of permanent honor and emolument must depend only upon his integrity and ability.___________________



<article title="The Toronto Architectural Sketch Club" author="">THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH CLUB.

O

N Monday evening the 6th of October was held the second annual meeting of this progressive Club, when a large amount of business was transacted. Before settling down to work the members were entertained by the humorous versatility of Mr. <person>J. A. Radford</person>, his many points being fully appreciated.

The report of the treasurer made a very fair showing for the Club, considering the many financial drawbacks of a first year, and credit is due to Mr<person>. E. Wilby </person>for the zealous way in which he looked after the "filthy lucre." The retiring President, Mr. <person>Chas. Lennox</person>, made a very concise and pertinent speech, in which he took occasion to remark on the successful work done by the Club during the past year, and the very gratifying prospects for the future, there being no reason why it should not be equal to any on the continent; indeed the general improvement noticed in the work of the members since the first competition seemed to indicate that this was fast becoming the case. He also referred to the help afforded the club by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

After some amendments to the constitution had been adopted,

