

<doctype type="text">tects are prepared to do, with the additional risk that they may not even receive one cent for their trouble and outlay. If architects had not been too ready in the past to accept terms very nearly as one-sided as the above, the city of Quebec would not have issued such ridiculous and unfair conditions for this competition. The three experts who are to adjudicate on the designs submitted should be named in the instructions. Competitors should know who the experts are to be, as they have often found that where they supposed competent professional men would be selected, incompetent professional men, or men of no professional knowledge whatever, were appointed. The only reason that can be urged why the names of the experts should not be given is, that it might be possible to "fix them." If they should be men that can be "fixed," they will be " fixed" in any case. We believe, however, that they should be men who cannot be "fixed," and such men should be appointed. However, if they are named in the conditions, the competitors can judge of even that side of the question.



No designs should be exhibited to the public before the competition is decided, for two reasons. The experts should be allowed to do their work without bringing pressure to bear upon them. If the public see the designs there will be selections made, and the selected designs will be pressed on the notice of the experts. There is no use having the designs submitted under motto if they are to be exhibited. The public would know at the end of the first day the author of every design, with the possible exception of those from a distance. We believe we can speak for the profession in Ontario in stating that there will be no designs submitted from this province. The conditions of the competition are most unreasonable and unfair, and the amount of work required to prepare the scale drawings, specifications, etc., is out of all proportion to the rewards offered.

be hoped that the Bill respecting the practice of I T is to

architecture in the province of Ontario will pass the Legislative Assembly. Those who understand the position of the profession of Architecture at the present time, are in sympathy with the proposed Act. There is nothing in it to which any reasonable objection can be taken. The whole object of the Act is, that the qualified practitioner may be distinguished from the unqualified, and that before any man can be registered as a qualified architect he must pass such examinations as may from time to time be determined on as sufficient to ensure his having a fair knowledge of architecture in all its branches. The man who passes this examination will be entitled to use the word "architect" as defining his profession, and will be registered as a properly qualified practitioner of architecture. There is no desire on the part of the profession to make any person about to build obtain a set of plans for the building he proposes to erect if he does not wish to have plans, nor in case he desires plans, to go to a qualified and registered architect. He will be allowed to build with or without plans, and be can go to any man he pleases for his plans ; but if be goes to a man not registered as an architect he will only have himself to blame it his building be defective in any particular. It is desired to compel public bodies, entrusted with the expenditure of public funds, to employ a properly qualified and registered architect.



It will be argued that the object of this Act is to make the profession of architecture a close profession, solely to the benefit of its members and not necessarily for the benefit of the public, and that the public does not desire that such a Bill should pass. There is nothing in the Bill constituting the profession of architecture a close profession, but even if there were, we maintain that the public has shown in many ways that none but qualified men should be allowed to practice as architects. The newspapers, as representing the public, are always complaining of defects in buildings, resulting, as they maintain, from the ignorance of architects. Well, if there is this ignorance on the part of some architects, something should be done to weed the ignorant out of the profession and leave only the intelligent, as it would appear that the public is not capable of selecting the competent from the incompetent, or such mistakes would not occur,

since there are qualified men, though not in such numbers as the unqualified. Unless there is a standard, the competent man cannot say to the incompetent one that he is not a properly qualified architect, and that he should not claim to be an architect, as be injures the standing of the profession and calls down upon it the condemnation of the public. If he did, he would only be laughed at for his impertinence.



Architects, in submitting this Bill to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, are only doing the work that the public should perform for itself. In nearly every case where a building has been found to be defective in any particular, the press has laid the blame on the profession as a body. If every case of failure were investigated, it would be found that the mistakes were owing to the engagement of an ignorant man, who had no right by training or natural ability to assume the duties of an architect, as well as to the fact that the public is unable to distinguish between the competent and incompetent. It certainly is not fair to blame a profession as a body for the errors of individuals who have no standing with the profession. These men claim to be of the profession, the public accepts their statements, employs them, finds them incompetent, and forthwith condemns the profession as a body as if there were no competent men in it, but that all were like those men whose statements they are so ready to accept. The Bill of Registration, if passed, will remedy this state of affairs, unsatisfactory alike to the profession and the public. The man who employs a registered architect will have some guarantee that be has a reasonable knowledge of his business, that is, after the Bill has been in force a few years—for as all men now professing to be architects will be entitled to be registered, it will require time for those among them who are incompetent to pass out of sight. If the profession asked the Legislature to pass an Act which would make it unlawful for any but a registered architect to practice architecture, and which would not allow anyone to erect a building except be employed a registered architect, there would be more than ample grounds for the throwing out of the Bill. The profession cannot gain anything from the passing of the Bill except in an indirect way. The men who are now practising will in the course of a few years have to contend with young men who will have had the advantage of a thorough and systematic training. Our best men will feel the competition of these young men, and the inferior men must suffer materially. Yet in spite of such facts, nearly all the architects now practising in this province are united in asking for the passing of this Act.



The practice of law has been made a close profession, because an ignorant or unscrupulous lawyer might ruin his client; medicine has been made a close profession, because the ignorant medical man might kill his patient. These are both good and sufficient reasons for making these close professions. The ignorant architect may cause serious loss to his client through his want of knowledge, or he may even cause his death through not knowing anything of sanitary science or the art of construction. We have therefore the two principal reasons which have caused the practice of law and medicine to be made close professions to urge as grounds for the closing of the profession of architecture against the ignorant and unqualified, It should not be possible for a man knowing nothing of construction to be able to erect a building the fall of which might result in serious loss of life. But such is the case, and that more lives are not lost through bad construction, is difficult for one to understand who has any knowledge of the methods of construction adopted by ignorant architects and builders. There is another class of ignorant architects and builders against whom the public should be protected, viz., the men who, unable to calculate strains, determine to err on the right side, and build much too heavily in places, at the sacrifice of much material and labour, which results in worse than mere waste of the client's money, as all such overplus of material necessitates the strengthening of the work in other parts to carry such unnecessary load.



Some may imagine that this movement for the incorporation of the profession of architecture is local and recent in its char

