

<doctype type="colophon">VOL 111.—No. II.	TORONTO, CANADA, FEBRUARY, 1890 		PRICE 20 CENTS 	2.00	PER YEAR	



—THE-—



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With an Intermediate Weekly Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD,,



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,



DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU



FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H. MORTIMER,	Publisher,

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.

SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.30. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" Its official paper.



The publisher of the" The Canadian Architect and Builder" wants to ensure the regular and prompt delivery o] this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



INTERMEDIATE EDITION.

O

N Saturday, the 22nd inst., we shall commence the regular publication of our weekly intermediate edition, the CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD, As the name implies, the purpose of this weekly edition will be to present as complete a record as possible of contracts open to tender. A list of important contracts awarded, and when obtainable, the prices at which they were obtained, will also be given. The members of the Ontario Association of Architects, comprising upwards of 95 per cent, of the architects of the Province, signified by resolution at their recent convention, approval of this new enterprise, and pledged themselves to place in the columns of the Contract RECORD all advertisements asking for tenders, This is alone sufficient to make this intermediate edition of great value to every contractor. Each subscriber in good standing to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is entitled to receive the Contract RECORD without extra charge. The names of regular advertisers will be published in a properly classified directory on the same liberal terms. The CONTRACT RECORD will be mailed or delivered to subscribers every Saturday. The date of publication of the regular edition of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will in future be the third Saturday in each month.

T

HE pressure upon our space compels us to hold over several articles of interest for future publication. In our issue of March, we hope to present some thoughts for the consideration of Canadian Master Builders arising out of the proceedings of the recent meeting of <assoc>the National Association of Builders of the United States</assoc>, at St. Paul, Minn.



T

HE leakage of water from a Street hydrant led to the sinking of one of the walls of the new Northern Pacific railway offices at Winnipeg. It has been found necessary to take the wall down and re-build it. The cost of so doing will amount to about $6,000, and the owners of the building have entered an action against the city for the recovery of this sum.



<person>M

R. Sproatt'</person>s resignation of his position as City Engineer of Toronto, and the appointment of <person>Mr. Jennings</person>, of the C. P. R. staff, as his successor, are the most important matters with which the new City Council has been called upon to deal. It is understood that Mr. Sproatt's valuable services will be retained for the city as Assistant Engineer, In this capacity be will be relieved of the worry incident to the management of the Works Department, which has been the means of seriously impairing his health. Mr. Jennings, while more familiar perhaps with railway than civic engineering, is said to be an excellent manager, and this is what the situation appears to demand.



T

HE advisability of appointing a "city architect" is engaging the attention of the Toronto City Council. There is something to be said for and against such an appointment. It is undesirable that all city buildings should be designed by one architect. Variety and not uniformity of design should be the object sought. For this reason the method of employing the services of different architects is to be preferred. On the other hand, it is evident that the services of a capable superintendent of building construction for the city are much needed. The person appointed to this important position should be a thorough mathematician, and should be perfectly familiar with every detail of modem constructional methods.





O

N a previous occasion we stated that the important work of plumbing inspection in a large and rapidly growing city like Toronto, could not be efficiently performed by two inspectors. Three or even four inspectors would be none too many. We are pleased to observe the following reference to the matter in the Mayor's inaugural message for the present year, indicating that an effort to secure greater efficiency in this department is likely to be made: "The inspectors of plumbing should also be maintained in sufficient number to do the work thoroughly and expeditiously. Last summer frequent complaints were made about delay in plumbing inspection, and I believe these delays arose from want of a sufficient number of men to do the work. It is very important for the health of the city that the Plumbing By-law should be efficiently carried out, and this can only be done by a competent and sufficiently numerous staff of inspectors."

