March, 1890

27

	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



cited that at Philadelphia fourteen times as many passenger trains as at present constitute the traffic at Toronto are handled over two tracks for a nearly equal distance. On the question of operative inconveniences and <person>Sir Joseph Hickson</person>'s claim for compensation, <person>Mr. Wellington </person>says: "In my judgment it would prove impossible for the Grand Trunk to establish the fact that it would suffer that or any loss whatever from operating inconvenience. It will involve certain inconveniences, in themselves disadvantageous, like most of such settlements; but the balance of advantage will be largely in favor of the Grand Trunk Railway, and they could therefore well afford, in my judgment, to pay a good rental for the use of the viaduct."



To the impartial mind it must certainly appear that at the present stage of proceedings the weight of evidence concerning the Cost of carrying out the viaduct scheme is decidedly against the contention of the railroads. In view of the widely divergent views on the subject, the City Council is recommended to appoint expert valuators before whom Mr. Wellington's scheme will be laid, and who will be asked to estimate the value of land to be expropriated, and the damages that will be sustained by the construction of the viaduct and station. As we understand it, this formed part of the duties of the expert engineers who have already reported, and their conclusions on the subject are perhaps as valuable as will be those of the valuators whom it is proposed to appoint, and whose services will cost the city a considerable extra amount, not to speak of the further delay which must ensue. On the whole, we think the suggestion of Mr. Wellington a good one that at the present stage the citizens should be asked to declare whether they are willing that a sum not to exceed $3,000,000 should be expended in the construction of a viaduct, Should a favorable decision be received from them, the Council would be justified in incurring further expense for the purpose of arriving at the exact cost of the work. It is of the greatest importance that a permanent solution of this problem should be reached at the present time, as every passing year serves to render it more complicated and difficult.



A

 PERUSAL of the proceedings of the fourth annual convention of the <assoc>National Association of Builders of the United States</assoc>, held in the city of St. Paul, Minn., on January 27th, 28th and 29th, is most interesting and instructive. It clearly indicates that this Association is performing a work of the highest importance to the building interests. The advantages of organization are thus referred to by <person>President Scribner </person>in his address "The question is frequently asked by some member of a local exchange, some doubting Thomas, 'What has been accomplished through our organization? Of what value is it to us as a fraternity?' To such I would say that, while our National Association is a purely legislative body, while we have no power to enforce the adoption of our ideas and suggestions by the various affiliating bodies, while we are only permitted to recommend to them the fruits of our councils and deliberations, we have, nevertheless, accomplished much in the elevation and improvement of standards of thought and action among builders. We have grown. We have become and are becoming, not contractors and manual workmen only, but thinking men, who, in ascertaining our own power, in learning to respect ourselves, are earning and securing the respect and esteem of all the better classes, the right thinking men of all professions and callings in the various localities in which we reside. The work heretofore accomplished by this body, having been, as stated, advisory and in the form of recommendation rather than mandatory, the general principles thereby included must have time in which to accomplish the work desired. Let us not be too impatient for more apparent results. I think, however that no observing member of a local exchange affiliating with this body, himself actively engaged in a branch of the building trades and coming in frequent contact with capitalists and their architects, can fail to have noted a remoulding of sentiment, a growing respect for the art of building and its faithful representatives. A more distinct recognition of the value of the builder in all that tends to promote the comfort, the happiness and welfare of the citizens of this great country. I think he must have noted that

not only are we as builders, coming to have greater faith in, and respect for ourselves, but that our brother builder, the architect, is learning to respect and have faith in us and our honesty of purpose not only, but in our ability as well, that in the preparation of plans and specifications for the use and guidance of the builder, in the rules and methods under which such builder is asked to estimate on the cost and value of construction proposed, in the general use and adoption of our "Standard Contract," we see ample evidence already, that the suggestions made by this body are being favorably received and acted upon, by the best exponents of the Science of Architecture in the country, and the fact is being recognized as never before our organization, that to the attainment of the best results in building, it is necessary that the designer and the artisan should work together, feeling that they are mutually dependent, the one upon the other. But for this organization and the earnest discussion by its membership of the apprenticeship question and the needs of American youth in this direction, the seed planted by <person>Col. Auchmuty </person>in New York, would not so early have borne such rich fruits, its influence to spread and widen, thence in the hands of earnest practical builders, till every city in which has been planted an exchange affiliating with this body shall have its well-fitted trade school as well, from whose portals shall graduate, not lawyers or doctors, but young men proud of the right to bear and honor the name of mechanic. But for this organization literally nothing would have been done to concentrate and give definite expression to the views of those engaged in the various branches of the building trade as to their rights, no steps would have been taken to enter the wedge of reform in any direction."



The Secretary, in his report intimates that the past work of the Association has consisted in bringing into existence a standard form of contract, dealing with the apprenticeship question, the lien law, the code of practice for estimation, etc. The objects to which its future efforts should be directed, are stated to be "To correct the Lien Laws or to secure their final abolition ; to establish thoroughly and permanently an intelligent system of training boys and young men to become skillful workmen; to obtain a reasonable and safe solution of the labor question, so that organizations of employers and organizations of workmen may work harmoniously for their mutual benefit, instead of being in constant antagonism; to secure the general adoption of a standard form of contract, so that the system of agreements for building work may be uniform everywhere, and the contractor be assured thereby of protection in this most important part of his business relations with the owner; to thoroughly establish a fair and equitable code of practice in the matter of estimating, in place of the indefinite no-system, which at present prevails, to the constant injury and loss to the contractor. The report further says "The reforms which we as business men particularly need to secure and the conditions which we particularly desire should prevail, will not be obtained or maintained for us by any of the existing machinery or methods of government, either municipal, state or national. We have a domain of our own, entirely distinct and apart, in which we must establish a domestic economy of our own, and sustain it by ourselves and for ourselves, for the reason that no one else will do it for us, and sustain it continuously for the reason that no forms of government or direction, however perfect in their conception and complete in their parts, can be left to run themselves."



The delegates in a highly intelligent and business like way entered into a full discussion and consideration of such important questions as "The Formation of a Builders' Surety Company," "Industrial Education," "Shall the National Association Recommend the Adoption of the Eight Hour Day?" "The Lien Laws," "Sub-Contracting," "Manual Training." The report of the delegates representative of the territory extending from New York on the east to Duluth in the west, and Louisville, Ky., in the south, showed that only in a few cities and in some branches of the building trades is the eight hour movement recognized. In the majority of cities nine and ten hours consti

