

<doctype type="text">tance. Our artists are studying for a high ideal. Never before in the history of decorative art in this country were there better skies, flowers, figures or allegorical paintings executed ; coloring more harmonious; drawings more perfect, and technical treatment more varied and finished. Doubtless the change intended for permanent decoration of painting the canvas in oil in the studio, where undisturbed they can ply their art, has been the cause of incenting and spurring them on to their highest idealizations, as well as the recognition and appreciation accorded by a liberal public. There is plenty of work for them to do, landscapes and marine views, figure groups, all that pleases the eye on canvas can appropriately be used in decoration.

Art is said to be that which appeals to our emotions and impulses, whether it be music, sculpture, acting or painting, and stimulates or depresses them through the different senses. If so, then our calling is indeed an art. An harmoniously tinted room—without being poetic, and speaking of symphonies and dreams in color—does that not instantly welcome and comfort and make us feel at ease? How often have you entered a room, and immediately there was a drop of twenty degrees in the temperature, and you received such a chill? Some coloring is so offensive, it instantly arouses a feeling of indignation or combativeness in you. You feel as if your calling were trifled with; and again you step into the adjoining room, and your outraged senses will be instantly soothed and quieted, so suggestively reposeful has the work been done. Some natures are so blunted that they are not affected in this manner, The more impulsive the spirit, sensitive the nature and higher the culture, the more readily affected we will be.

Truly there is a soul in our art, or at least a finer feeling, not gifted to all, which must be disciplined and cultivated, for to be able to discern those subtler tones, to appreciate those minute differences in tints and shades, to feel the effect of warm and cool, or to distinguish between chaste and vulgar colors, there is something more than the technique of a craft required to be thus affected.

The more we are surrounded by beautiful forms and harmonious, the more exacting becomes our natures, the greater our requirements, the higher our ideal. It is our education, our intelligence ; our culture, that creates this natural demand for a higher art. We know there is no finality in art, but we must endeavor, on all occasions, in return for our labors, to attain the greatest amount of permanent beauty, and to strive, constantly strive, to reach the highest excellence, the position occupied by our old masters of the 15th and 16th centuries.





<article title=" DECORATIVE ELECTRIC LIGHTING IN ENGLAND " author="">DECORATIVE ELECTRIC LIGHTING IN ENGLAND.

 ONE of the finest effects possible to be attained by electric lighting, says the American Machinist, will be when the

light is completely concealed—when, in other words, the light is diffused, as in day time, coming from nowhere in particular. Attempts have been made to produce this effect by throwing the concealed light upon the ceilings, but they have not been very successful. On the grounds of a certain out of London residence, there is a large fountain 70 feet across, which, by a touch of a switch in the drawing-room window, can be illuminated in the twinkling of an eye, by glow lamps below the surface of the water. Similarly beautiful effects are familiar to the visitors of the big exhibitions, which now appear to have become permanent institutions in London. For producing effects of this sort, gas is of course useless ; it requires oxygen, whereas the electric filament glows in vacuo. The simple fact that the electric light shines anywhere and sets nothing on fire suggests boundless possibilities in an entirely new field of domestic—and, when the civic sense is fully developed, public—decoration. There is one firm of electric fitters and designers which has the lighting of 22 large private mansions on hand at the present time. We know of another English firm—not of fitters and designers, but of engineers, whose business it is to put down the "mains"—which has had the supplying of some 300 country mansions. All this says something for the prospects of what electricians are already calling the fine art of lighting.

<article title="Sanitation-Heat-Light Essay on Plumbing" author="">SANITATION-HEAT-LIGHT 

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITION

ESSAY ON PLUMBING.

BY "T. SQUARE."



N

O subject which relates to the construction of dwellings is more worthy of careful study and consideration by the architect, builder and householder, than the sanitary plumbing of our houses, inasmuch as nothing conduces so materially to the health and comfort of the occupants of a building, as a well considered and carefully carried out system of plumbing, as applied to drainage and water supply. Much has been done within the past few years calculated to disseminate knowledge on this important branch of learning by articles in our building and sanitary journals, letters, and discussions in the daily papers, all of which have helped to scatter broadcast the germ of enquiry; in consequence of this, a considerable impulse has been given to the consideration of sanitary matters, and now commonly amongst the first questions asked by a proposing tenant are—where does the water come from? Is the drainage perfect? Were the plumbing works superintended by a competent authority? Are the pipes properly ventilated and trapped? and the like. In most of the large cities of this continent there exists a sanitary code and system of inspection, which have done much to improve the plumbing of our buildings, and it would be well were such laws and Inspection extended to towns of smaller pretensions. Recently in a town of no considerable size, the writer had occasion to enquire if there were building regulations or by-laws with regard to plumbing existing in the municipality, but was informed that as this was a free country, all could do as they pleased in these matters; it need scarcely be remarked that such a state of things should not be allowed to continue, It is not proposed in this paper to enter into a discussion regarding the different kinds of fixtures, or the capacity and strength of the various pipes, but rather to treat the subject in a general and comprehensive way, endeavoring to show what are the principal questions to be considered in arriving at a good and desirable system for the piping of any dwelling, large or small, As a general principle, the piping should be arranged in as simple and direct a way as possible, so as to avoid all unnecessary complication, all internal pipes should be exposed in full view, run in grooves in walls, or boxed so that they can easily be got at. In no case should they be allowed to run inside partitions, and long runs of pipes under floors should be guarded against as undesirable.

Water closets, fixtures, wash basins and the like, should, as far as possible, be placed in rooms over each other to save piping. In small houses it will be found convenient to place the bath-room over the kitchen. Till recently it has been the general practice to box round with wood panelling the water closet apparatus, the bath and the wash bowl, etc., and to place underneath these fixtures a lead safe and waste pipe attached. In the greater number of buildings it is even now done; far better in every respect would it be if such boxing, where possible, were entirely abolished and the fixtures left open to the view. The flooring of such rooms could be made water tight with tiles, etc., so that any leakage that might occur would not penetrate the ceiling below. Such an arrangement allows for the cleansing of the fixtures and the flooring around them, and facilitates any repairs that may become necessary from time to time. Outside drains should be of glazed vitrified stoneware pipes laid to an even grade, junctions to a line of piping being made with Y branches, and bends with special pipes of easy curve, and in good ground a sound joint should be made with tai cord and cement, whilst in loose ground tar cord and clay puddle should be used in the joints. In loose soils, to secure an even bed, sand or fine gravel might be laid with advantage, and great care should be taken that when the earth is returned, the pipes are not disturbed.

In some cases it may be found necessary to drain the ground of cellars, This will be best effected by the use of small size

