March, 1890

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



large number of Montreal architects. It is quite possible that the prospects for the erection of the proposed building may be changed as a result of the municipal elections held yesterday, no Less than seventeen of the old council having either resigned or been defeated, many of whom it is believed were in favor of erecting the costly structure. Seeing the people generally are strongly opposed to increased taxation, as shown by yesterday's election, it is difficult to imagine how it can possibly be done, as it is certain if $300.000, or just as likely $400,000, were spent in this direction, increased taxation must follow.

Two additional buildings to those already noted have been contracted for on the newly widened St. John Street, and active operations begun.

<person>Mr. Duquet</person>, the well-known jeweler, is putting up a handsome stone building from plans made by <person>Mr. Peachy</person>; the contracts amount to about $15,000 and are in the hands of Messrs. <firm>De Varennes and Perron</firm>. The heirs Andrews are also erecting on the adjoining lot a three storey stone store and dwelling, from plans furnished by <person>Mr. Stavely</person>, at a cost of about $6,502, Messrs. <person>W. J. Peters </person>and <person>W. Sharp </person>being the contractors.



<article title="Correspondence - MOntreal" author="">MONTREAL

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



PLASTERERS' STRIKE.



THE journeymen plasterers and master plasterers have at last come to an understanding, and work has again been resumed by the men.

The terms agreed upon are that the men shall receive $2.75 per day, and the bosses shall have the right to employ a third apprentice when the second apprentice is in his last year. This is a sort of compromise between the men and masters. The men asked $3.00 per day and were offered $2.50. This agreement has, I understand, to hold good for twelve months from the first of May next no strike is to take place during that time, and either party wishing to change this agreement must give at least four months notice.

The effect of the recent strike will not be felt so much by the men now as later on, as all work is behindhand, and consequently every one is using every endeavor to make up for lost time, but there is no doubt that the strike has caused many buildings to be delayed that would otherwise have been started this spring.

PAINTERS' AND CARPENTERS' DEMANDS.



The rumor regarding the painters' and carpenters' proposed strikes I do not think will amount to anything, as the town is full of carpenters and painters, A good mechanic can always find fair remuneration fur his services, and most of our best builders are willing to treat their men fairly.

LAST YEAR'S BUILDINGS.



During the year 1889, 1,032 buildings were erected in Montreal, the total value of which amounts to $3,608,300. The buildings of greatest value were erected in St. Antoine and St. Lawrence Wards., St. Antoine alone being $1,234,150, and St. Lawrence Ward $581,650.

REAL ESTATE.



The real estate market during the past month was a little brighter than that of the previous month. No doubt holidays, bad weather and "grippe" accounted for January's dullness. Several large transactions have taken place during the past month, and minor has it that Toronto capitalists are seeking investment in real estate, not only in the city; but in our suburbs, one or two farms having been purchased by Toronto syndicates at Montreal Junction.

<assoc>CANADIAN SOCIETY OF Civil ENGINEERS</assoc>.



An ordinary meeting of this society was held at <building>McGill College </building>on the 23rd instant, when a paper was read and discussed on the manufacture of Canadian cements, a subject on which very little is yet known, It was the general opinion of all present that if a thoroughly reliable Canadian cement could be manufactured, the engineers would only be glad to encourage its use, and thereby encourage home manufacture.

FLOOD PROTECTION.



I learn that nothing has yet been decided upon with regard to the protection of the city from floods. It appears that the Government have not yet approved of plan No. 6, a question having Arisen regarding its effect on the south shore of the St. Lawrence. Sir <person>Hector Langevin </person>is reported as having said that no scheme which will affect the natural flow of the St. Lawrence will be approved of.

PRIVATE BILLS.

<person>

The Local Government at the request of the city of Montreal, assisted by Hon. James </person>McShane, have thrown out the peoples gas bill and subway bill. The city is to be congratulated on their success in these matters. While I am not in sympathy with the present gas monopoly in Our city, yet I do not approve of granting charters to any company whose only object would be to sell them to the best advantage. The position we take in all these matters is that the incorporation should be genuine, and no charter should be granted which could be sold, bartered, traded or given away to any existing company, but it should be clearly understood when a charter is given that the parties receiving it mean business and should deposit with the city some security for the faithful execution of their charter.



Mr. <person>W. W. Cowan</person>'s bridge building works at Stratford, which have been under temporary suspension, have resumed business, It is understood hat Mr. Thos. Holiday has beer, admitted to a partnership with Mr. Cowan.

	<article title="Decoration and Furniture Recent Developments in Decoration" author="Johansmeyer, Mr.">DECORATION	AND FURNITURE	/







RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN DECORATION.*

A

 WELL-KNOWN writer says Art moves in cycles of styles. At one time a separate style in blended form is resurrected ; at other times we witness blended styles. New combinations of old styles may create a novelty, with nothing new in principle, new only in arrangement and with no great variety in details. We have few decorative forms that do not retain some element of a proceeding period." To this we can not dissent. Those of us who have given any attention to the origin and composition of style in decorative art will readily agree that in the present era there is little or no purity; although we may be compelled to call such by, or adopt, some classical name for our purpose, the intent is not to deceive, but the designer merely wishes to convey the idea that the scheme was not to faithfully decorate in exact reproduction of some period or era of time, but simply to avail himself of the advantages of that particular style, with such adaptations, in form and color, discarding here, appending there, modifying this, strengthening that, and reserving the right to make such changes as will best accord with the surroundings, improvements, temperament and culture of to-day.

We endeavor to be as classical as our knowledge and resources of material will permit. We all know to consistently decorate in say the "Louis XV" or "Japanese" style if we at all succeed in obtaining the genuine article, we do so at a great outlay, and then we may venture the opinion that our stained glass, mantel and fire-place will be very modern, and the exterior architecture will be composite " Romanesque.

Although we are utilizing all styles in our present decorations, the predominating ones have been adapted from the French period of the '' Rococo'' the different kings, Louis XIV, XV, XVI, and the Empire. The revival of these styles has chiefly been confined to interiors, while the " Cinqe Cente," " Italian

Renaissance," ,, Romanesqu Early English and Elizabethian " in composite form with " Celtic " and " Bysantine," as well as the " Adams are extensively employed both for interiors and exteriors. Modem inventiveness joins hands with ancient picturesqueness and produces varying and unique results. This we see constantly exemplified in the interior as well as on the exterior of our buildings. Our own, and only style, the " Colonial," has found amazing power with our people, and no wonder ; what prettier, more uniform, or chaste style have we ? If simplicity is beauty, our " Colonial " style will be a joy forever. Although light and not sufficiently ornate for all purposes, we will surely find and develop some other one for our more substantial work, and the present indications point strongly to the adoption of the " Romanesque.

A gratifying change is being made by our architects. Formerly, when the dwelling was constructed by the builders, they considered their work done, and their interest ceased upon its completion.

To-day a large number have added decorative departments to their offices and designs for the interior decorations. And who better qualified than they to enter the field with us ? Equipped with their knowledge of leading styles, and of home building, their drawing and designing abilities, who better prepared to take hold of this, their new field, the supervision of the interior decoration ? Their ideas and hints cannot fail to be valuable to us.



The painter will naturally be brought in closer relationship with the owners, for the architect will not hold further communion with the contractor or cabinet maker when engaged on his scheme of decoration, for they are valueless to him then, but will confer directly with and impart his views to the decorator; the man whose technical knowledge and experience so perfectly fit him to be the architect's able coadjutor, to aid him to harmoniously color and execute in detail his sketches, thus avoiding

*	Paper read by <person>Mr. Johansmeyer</person> before the New York State Convention of



Master Painters and Decorators.

