

<doctype type="text">the misunderstandings when imparted through an intermediate, and the saving of at least one profit to his clients. This result can but be beneficial to our craft. Emancipated from the con tractors we will be distinct and receive that independent recognition, for which we are so bravely striving.

The coloring used in decorating a modem dwelling is always, consciously or unconsciously, controlled and dictated by the prevailing fashion. To gratify its whims, new shades and tints must constantly be created. These colors will appear in the latest textile fabric, and necessarily are introduced in the surroundings. The painter must become acquainted with these and introduce them in his scheme of coloring. In the selection and arrangement of his colors, his degree of taste, refinement and art will be seen. He may possess all necessary scientific and technical knowledge of his calling, his treatment with the brush be skillful, his judgment of design and proportion of same be perfect, but the entire effect may be destroyed, or, at least, marred, if the coloring does not receive the proper attention.

The successfully decorated room receives its maximum amount of work, not in labor or material, but in thought and study. A certain shade in one place will appear entirely different when exposed and contrasted to different lights and surroundings, "Seeing is believing ;" this trite saying aptly applies to a decorator studying a color effect.

It is true we have certainly improved our taste for colors. The abandonment of those gaudy and Incongruous colors, seldom resulting in harmony, to the fewer, chaste and subtle tones of color used to-day is convincing proof of this. In choosing our colors, attention should be given to the character of the apartment; whether gay or grave; dignified or mirthful Its occupants or frequenters, whether old or young; masculine or feminine; we study carefully and choose such a plan as would best adapt itself to our purpose, so we select one color for our scheme and use that in its varying shades, or introduce into our scheme its proper complimentary tones, studying to create a perfect harmony and to obtain the most beautiful results in the simplest manner.

To endeavor to name the prevailing tones of color would be too exhaustive, and would convey but a faint idea of their manifold number. Our intimacy with the names used in dress goods will be of assistance here. It is impossible to have a name for all our colors. The best tones for decorating are those half tones that border on or hover between several colors without being either; those indefinite subdued tones, whose beauties must be felt to be properly appreciated as they cannot be described, viz., "russets," "sage green," "cadet blue," etc. Take "terra cotta," for instance, what name more indefinite and vague, you can draw any conclusion from the color from a soda biscuit to a Pompeiian red and you will not be in error; so with olive and other tones. As a rule, artists do not spend much time in learning the name of a color, but in producing and developing the same, which is most important to their purpose.

Gold and bronze will be constantly employed in decorations The latter not extensively as formerly. Its very cheapness, the profusion in which it was used, its perishable nature, all have caused a great reaction to set in. This ought to be a welcome change, as the demand for pure gold leaf will insure a higher grade of work throughout. Gold or bronze should never be used en masse, or in profusion, but should be used sparingly and with judgment, or it will suggest ostentation. It ought never to be used on back-grounds, unless in very small patterns or mottled effects, or when closely covered with ornament, but rather introduced to heighten an already rich piece of coloring. Drawings should be of a minute and graceful character, lines should be finely drawn and only the high parts of relief work be illuminated with gold. To treat otherwise would be barbarous and vulgar. As gold naturally suggests riches and as the height of culture and refinement inclines to modesty and reservedness, it would certainly be inconsistent to obtrusively display too much gold.

In the past few years a new method of treating our decoration has sprung up, and consists of the manner of preparing our back grounds with gold size and covering with metal or composition leaf, either gold, silver or copper, and then applying with transparent colors, a glazing or lacquering of any desired hue over

the same. This softens and robs the metal of its tinsel appearance. These backgrounds are used, as well for artistic, as fruit, game, etc., as for conventional ornamentation. Some very curious and beautiful results have been produced in this way, but great care must be exercised or the decorator will find that the results of his attempt will have a cheap varnishy effect.

The covering of walls with silk, tapestry and cretonne, is on the increase for finer wall hangings. As a rule the effects are very beautiful, the good coloring and softer nature of the material, easily accorded them with their surroundings, but its perishability, the ravishes of moth and dust, the fading of the aniline dyes, will prevent the adoption of this material for permanent decoration.

The demand for canvas or muslin covered backgrounds is steadily growing for our more permanent mural decoration. This is certainly a step in the right direction and is cheapest in the end. Hasten the day when it becomes more in vogue, for one of the severest difficulties the decorator must contend with and resume responsibility for, is the poorly finished plastering of a modern house. After overcoming this difficulty and successfully decorating the room, he is apt to see his best efforts mocked at by the blistering and cracking of the plastering.

Relief decorations have been tested and found successful, and the decorator will find steady employment for it, Whether in a classical, unique or modem style, modeled by form or hand or stamped by machine. The inventions of material and method of applying this plastic or solid relief have been numberless from pressed papers to the heavy Stucco work, all comes under the heading of relief or raised work. The advantage of relief is the large variety of treatment of which it admits, and where the decorator has his opportunity to display his talent to obtain the most beautiful results. In this latter respect there has been a gradual improvement, the demand for the so-called roughing or combing has grown steadily less. It has seen its day, but the higher grade of artistic free hand relief work, which requires the services of a modeller, is in increased demand.

A new material for relief ceilings has made its appearance, and is composed of either sheet iron or steel, corrugated or pressed in ornamental forms and then put up in panels, after which it is painted and decorated, and it is difficult to distinguish it from plaster relief. The uses of these ceilings have been confined to stores, however. We have also seen these ceilings put up already decorated in a burnt and glazed imitation of lacquered metal, but a very cheap and tinsel effect is the result.

Paper hangings continue to be extensively used if not quite as much as formerly, still sufficiently to keep our coadjutor, the manufacturer, on the qui vive in inventing new designs, colors, materials, etc., for the laws of health must be consulted by the decorator, and we are giving the hygienic and sanitary condition of our dwellings close attention for these reasons; washable and sanitary papers find most favor, while metallics, velours, etc., are left on the shelves.

There seems to be a disposition to return to painted walls for our sleeping apartments, not in the old-fashioned treatment, but in blended damask effects, and a variety of other pretty ways; the decorator has sufficient scope here, and may be as broad in his treatment as he chooses, By the way, a large number of decorators are only putting friezes on parlor and music room walls, and then they must be an exact match in design and color with wall hangings. The difficulty of exact width, design and color, unless when painted for the upper rooms, has led to their abandonment.

Our employees, who are in reality our assistants, are also giving constant evidence of their improvement in taste and judgment. A few years ago, when the paints were mixed in the shop, a workman rarely had opportunity to develop his taste for colors, for taste can be developed and cultivated; but to-day, when all parts of a room must be in sympathy and in harmony with the general tone of coloring, his thinking faculties, as well as his dexterity as a brushman, are brought into use with most beneficial results, which promises brightly for our calling. Our workmen feel the impulse of our efforts to elevate the standard of our craft, and nobly responded when called upon for assis-



