



<doctype type="text">tute the day. In the opinion of many of the delegates, however, the eight hour day is coming, and contractors must be prepared to meet it. The situation will not warrant them in paying the same wages for eight hours work as for ten, therefore the system of payment by the hour will have to be universally resorted to. The merits of the lien laws vary greatly in different States. While good grounds exist for the demand for the abolition of the laws in some States, the feeling of the convention appeared to be that some protection such as these laws were designed to afford is a necessity to the contractor. The necessity that provision should be made to impart technical instruction to American youths is fully recognized, and the efforts of the Association will be directed to this object. The Association manifests appreciation of the fact that changes have taken place in the industrial world during the last few years, and that steps should be taken to meet the changed or changing conditions. Is there no need that the builders and contractors of Canada should take united and intelligent action upon some of the many important questions which are occupying so much of the attention of their brethren across the line?



<article title="Quebec City Hall Competition" author="Baillairge, Charles"><building>QUEBEC CITY HALL </building>COMPETITION.

QUEBEC, March 3, 1890.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,-—Your February number contains several very pertinent articles which I would like to see reproduced in all the leading journals of the Dominion. I allude to your remarks on the "Montreal Subway Co ;" "Dangerous Buildings;" "Dangerous Scaffolding."

As to the Quebec City Hall competition, you are probably right in stating that the cost of such a building will be closer on half a million dollars than $200,000. Either the building committee considered it beneath their dignity to consult the undersigned in the premises, or it may be, that knowing from experience that public buildings the world over generally cost about twice as much as the original estimates, they thought by limiting architects to $200,000, the eventual cost might not materially exceed double that amount. With regard to employing the architect whose design shall win the first prize, to superintend the construction of the building, the advertisement does not set forth or imply that be shall not be the party employed, but merely that the corporation reserves the right of not entrusting him with the carrying out of his design ; as it is possible that the premiated plan may be from an architect not thoroughly conversant with all the requirements of solidity of construction, not thoroughly possessed of all the qualifications necessary to carry out the work, or whose terms might be incompatible with the means at the disposal of the committee. You will have noticed a similar proviso in the" Instructions to Architects" for the Laval University competitive designs for Montreal in 1886, wherein it is set forth that "The seminary of Quebec does not bind itself to the execution of any of the plans submitted, and that it will confide the execution of the 'work to the architect who has won the first prize, only in so far as said architect shall afford all necessary guarantees and possess all required qualifications and shall have an understanding with the proprietors as to the fees, salary or percentage to be paid him."

You will also notice that, as stated in the Engineering and Building Record of the 15th Feb., while the plans for the <building>Congressional Library </building>building at Washington have been prepared by architect <person>Paul J. Pely</person>, the work is being carried out, not by him, but under the superintendence of <person>Gen. F. Q. Casey</person>, chief of engineers U. S. A., and <person>Bernard B. Green.

</person>Nor does the "London Tower Competition" set forth or even imply that the author of the premiated design shall be called on to superintend its construction.

Again, with regard to the justice or advisability or the contrary of imposing on competing architects the additional cost and trouble of submitting specifications, bills of quantities and estimates of probable cost, the "London Tower Co.," though the structure must cost fully a million of dollars, and the premiums offered are but £500 and £250 respectively, make it a condition that detailed quantities and estimates shall accompany the designs sent in, and the Laval University competition of Montreal

 already alluded to, has it that "Each series of plans shall be accompanied by specifications descriptive of the work and detailed quantitative estimates of the cost thereof." And yet in this case, where the building is estimated to cost more than half a million dollars, the premiums offered were but $700, $500, and $300, respectively ; while it was only after considerable pleading on my part that the Quebec City Hall Committee could be brought to consent to what they consider such high figures as $1,500, $1,000, and $500.

As it is, some 56 architects or more from Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, and Quebec, from Washington, Philadelphia, Baltimore, New York, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, etc., etc., have entered the field, that is, they have applied for the "Instructions," though possibly as you say, many of them on seeing the conditions may decline to compete where the amount of work to be performed IS SO considerable in proportion to the premiums offered.

Still, as you remark, and I altogether agree with you in saying so, it does seem unjust to require all competitors to send in detailed drawings, specifications, bills of quantities and estimates of the cost of carrying out a design, until there is at least some probability that the plan will be adopted; and, on the other hand, it does seem necessary that each design be accompanied by at least some general specification or description of the works, or by a bill of quantities descriptive to the extent at least of affording some idea of the materials to be employed, as of the probable cost, to enable the judges or experts to see which of the designs come nearest to an embodiment of the conditions laid down.

I shall look with much interest to any further remarks it may please you to publish on the subject of competitions in general, and to articles on the same subject from your numerous correspondents, with a view to the formation of some code of conditions by which myself and others may be guided in the future.

<person>CHAS. BAILLAIRGE</person>,

Architect and City Engineer.





<article title="Toronto Architectural Sketch Club" author=""><assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH CLUB.

</assoc>O

N Tuesday evening, 25th February, Mr. <person>J. W. L. Forster </person>gave the club a talk on "Drawing from the Antique." He emphasized the necessity of students having a clearly defined purpose in their minds in undertaking any such study, as aimless fussing over forms and lines was neither helpful to interest nor profitable in result.

Facility with pencil and pen were first requisites in draughtsmanship. A deep knowledge of beautiful forms was very essential. Mr. Forster spoke at some length on the constituent elements of beauty. Every animated being in creation was harmonious in its parts; even the cur we kick is every inch a cur—agreeing perfectly in every feature with his character. In studying the form of a cripple, all the parts will be in agreement with the deformity, so making the eye content to look upon him. But the higher we ascend the scale of physical perfection, the nearer we approach those mental and moral perfections, which again have a strong, commanding influence over the corporeal form. He referred to the employment of the human form in decorative work, and its utility in the adornment of architectural facades, pointing out to the students the third great aim in study, namely, to create.

A hearty vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Foster for his practical address, which it was hoped would stimulate those present to pursue that most important of all art studies—the study of the antique.

The attention of the meeting was then turned to the drawings, which had been submitted in the second club competition, "A Country Railway Station." These were hung around the walls of the room, and proved most interesting and instructive, the improvement in the club work in the short space of a month being generally commented upon. The students' section should receive special notice, the four who exhibited this month showing very promising work.

The vote of the members on the order of merit resulted as follows: First place <person>Ernest Wilby</person>; second place, <person>A. H. Gregg</person>; third place, <person>G. T. Goldstone</person>. Junior section—First place, T.

