



		'PRICE 20 <doctype type="colophon">CENTS VOL. III.—No. III.	TORONTO, CANADA, MARCH, 1890.	$2.00 Per YEAR.	



—THE—



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With an Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

	DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

	14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.



SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has appointed the 'Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.



The publisher of the " The Canadian Architect and Builder" desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of some, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



T

HE Quebec Legislature has very properly refused to grant the extensive powers asked for by the <firm>Montreal Subway Co</firm>., commented on in a previous issue. The measure was only defeated, however, by the casting vote of the Chairman of the Railway Committee.

I

T is satisfactory to observe that <person>Mr. Jennings</person>, the new City Engineer of Toronto, is to be clothed with larger powers than those accorded to his predecessor. It is only by conferring upon him full authority to manage his department in the way that seems to him best calculated to produce satisfactory results, that he can be held accountable for the efficiency of the work performed. There is evidence of indisposition on the part of some of the aldermen to surrender the reins of authority entirely into his hands, but he very properly says, in the light of the experience of the past, that unless this is done, he will have no other alternative than to step down and out. Under these circumstances the authority asked for will be granted, and the results may be expected to show a very distinct improvement over the system which has hitherto prevailed.



T

HE destruction of the <building>University of Toronto</building>, is felt to be a national calamity. Canadian architecture has lost one of its brightest ornaments, and Canadian architects an object of delight and inspiration. The structure was Norman in outline, but Roman in detail, and was erected in 1860 from designs prepared by Messrs. <firm>Cumberland & Storm</firm>. It was universally acknowledged to be one of the finest specimens of architecture on this continent. Fortunately the main tower and facade escaped destruction, and thus in rebuilding, the former outlines will to a large extent be preserved. Changes will, however, be made in the plan to better adapt it to the requirements, and increased accommodation will also be provided. The Legislature, the city of Toronto and the graduates, will give liberal assistance towards the immediate re-building of the structure. It is a subject of much regret that many treasures belonging to the library and the museum can never be replaced. We cannot but feel that the carelessness or penuriousness by which the University Senate was led to neglect to make proper provision for the protection of the noble building and its priceless contents is deserving of the severest censure.



T

HE destruction of the University is said to have induced the thought in the minds of the aldermen that it would probably be following the dictates of \ and economy to expend an additional $200,000 in fire-proofing the new Toronto municipal buildings. The architect is understood to be favorable to the proposal, which could be carried out, if decided upon at once, without either change of plans or delay.





T

HE cost of maintaining <building>Rideau Hall</building>, the residence of the Governor-General, was recently the subject of Parliamentary enquiry. One of the persons called to give evidence created considerable amusement by reading a list of the heating apparatus required to heat the 265 rooms and corridors of the establishment. This included eight hot air furnaces, four beehive furnaces, two coal furnaces, fifteen base-burning stoves, fifteen box stoves, twenty-three open grate stoves, thirty-eight fire-places, three cooking ranges, two bake ovens—altogether 121 heating apparatuses for the main building, Secretary's cottage, stable and greenhouse. In reply to the enquiry "Do you manage to keep warm ?" the witness replied, "Not very."





WORKMEN in the building trades in Montreal and other cities are demanding shorter hours of labor. An intimation accompanies the demand that no reduction must be made in the rate of wages—in short, that a long day's pay shall accompany a short day's work. The Montreal master builders are asked to meet a deputation of workingmen and hear reasons for the demand. It will be interesting to learn whether any reason exists other than the desire to (10 the least amount of service for the greatest amount of money. The profits of the master builders are not so great that they can afford to do with six hours less work per week by every man in their employ while maintaining the present rate of wages. As stated elsewhere, the demand must lead to the adoption or the system of payment by the hour. This course, we observe, has just been decided upon by the Ottawa builders. The only alternative would be to add the amount which would be lost by lessening the hours of labor, to the tenders, thus throwing the burden upon the shoulders of persons who should build. In view of the keenness of competition which exists among contractors, there is little hope that this can be done.

