<doctype type="text">IT has frequently been remarked that "corporations have no souls." Unless it desires to be classified in this category, the Court House Committee of the Toronto City Council should at once recede from the position it has taken with regard to the appointment of a clerk of the works for the new city buildings, and the source from whence should come his remuneration. Out of fees amounting to but 3½ per cent, on the cost of the building, the committee contend that the architect should himself pay for the services of a clerk of' the works. This the architect very properly refuses to do, and would be justified in refusing to do, even though be were to receive the full commission of 5 per cent, usually paid to the profession. It would be contrary to all precedent that be should do so. There is a vast amount of ignorance even on the part of intelligent people regarding the position and duties of the architect, and the treatment which should be accorded him. We trust that the Incorporation Bill now before the Legislature, when it becomes law and goes into operation, will serve to project light upon this subject.



THE Building Inspector in England, or rather the " Building Surveyor" as be is called there, is a more important functionary than our local inspectors; be has to pass a special examination to prove his qualifications for the post, and is usually by profession an architect. But it sometimes happens that with all the care taken, the wrong man gets the post, and an amusing story comes to us from England in this connection. A newly appointed surveyor, anxious to show that be was thoroughly alert and up to his duties, reported that a stone pier had been erected in a shop front to support the upper part of the house, and that it was 3 inches out of the perpendicular. Now 3 inches in about 12 feet would be a considerable slope. It was discovered, however, that be had "sighted the stone pier by a scaffold pole." Prodding about with his stick be came to the conclusion that the pier had not a solid foundation, when as a matter of fact it stood upon the basement wall. Says be to the contractor: "Something wrong here, I'm afraid." "Oh! " says the contractor, "would you like to know where you put your stick? Well, that's where the coal hole plate will come, and you won't find a bottom at 8 feet there."



O

CCASIONALLY the architect comes in contact with a contractor who for "ways that are dark and tricks that are vain," resembles the "heathen Chinee." It is related that a well-known member of the old school of Toronto architects once proved himself more than a match for a contractor of the class to which we have referred. The contractor was engaged in the erection of a large building under the architect's supervision. The latter, while paying a visit of Inspection one morning observed a pile of soft bricks, and having called the contractor's attention to them, told him that they must not be allowed to go into the building. The contractor professed surprise that such inferior material should have been delivered to him, and declared that be would have the manufacturer cart them back to the yard again. The architect said no more, but went and stationed himself at the upper window of an empty warehouse near by, from which be could command a view of the operations of the contractor and his employees. He saw the pile of soft bricks gradually disappear and take its place in the construction of an inner wall. The operation occupied a large portion of the day, but be remained patiently at his post until it was finished. Then be went to the contractor and told him in somewhat forcible language what be had seen, and ordered him to set to work and undo what he had done and build the wall of proper material.



IT is with pleasure that we direct attention to the work of

I

the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Sketch Club</assoc>, for we feel that in no way can we more surely advance the interests of the profession than by exciting a desire for organization amongst its members, and we hope that before long reports may be sent us of the formation and operation of similar societies in other cities throughout the Dominion. Enthusiasm is one of the elements of success in every trade, business and profession, and is an absolute essential in a successfu1 architect's life. Nothing but

enthusiasm will prompt him to spend long nights over dusty tomes and troublesome problems, and all the studies so necessary to his education. Nothing else will lead him to spend years in perfecting himself in draughtsmanship and in art-knowledge, and again his enthusiasm is unquestionable when the great longing of his life is gratified, and be roams at will amid the great and beautiful buildings of the world—when be gathers his sketches and collects his precious photographs—causing his mind to become fired with an ambition to emulate, if not to excel, those old builders whose works have been the inspiration of all future generations. To an architect who loves his profession, should anything be more delightful than association with kindred spirits for the discussion in friendly and social ways of the questions which harass and trouble him in his daily life? The routine draughtsman, whose occupation is so often uncongenial and distasteful, will find in like afflicted ones his true genius showing itself, and his mourning will be turned into gladness as this pleasant and instructive way is opened to him for self improvement. It has frequently been said that all really good draughtsmen on this continent gravitate to the great American centres. Truly those who have become familiar to us through their published work, are generally to be found in the larger cities, for many of them are but professional picture makers, and these naturally seek central location. But we believe that of ordinary office draughtsmen, Canadian cities can show as good examples as any of the cities across the line. In proof of the assertion we would like to place the initiatory work of the Toronto Architectural Sketch Club beside that of any similar club on the continent. We must confess to the surprise we felt on viewing the competitive drawings submitted in the early stages of the club's existence. Compared with the work we have seen published of similar organizations, they certainly take high rank.



T

HE recent conference between the Esplanade Committee of the city of Toronto and the managers of the Grand Trunk and Canadian Pacific railroads on the subject of the improvement of the water front, and the removal of the danger to life caused by the existence of level crossings, was not of a satisfactory character to those who feel the importance of having these improvements effected. The railroad authorities showed themselves to be averse to a disturbance of the existing state of things. The erection of a viaduct they declared to be entirely out of the question, alleging in support of this contention that the structure would cost from five to ten million dollars. <person>Sir Joseph Hickson </person>also managed to figure out to his own satisfaction at least, that his corporation would be entitled to compensation from the city to the extent of a quarter of a million dollars yearly for losses occasioned by operating inconveniences under the new system.



If the statements of the railroad managers regarding the cost of the proposed viaduct are entitled to be regarded as facts, then the entire scheme certainly falls to the ground, as it would be suicidal for the city of Toronto to enter upon so expensive an undertaking. It is, however, a singular circumstance that in the opinion of such eminent engineers as Messrs. <person>Wellington</person>, <person>Gzowsk</person>i and <person>Shanly</person>, the cost of the structure would be less than three million dollars. Since the estimates of the railroad managers were given to the public, Mr. Wellington, by request of the Board of Trade, has further considered the question, and presented a supplementary report thereon. He finds no cause to modify the opinion expressed in his first report that a cash investment of considerably less than $3,000,000 would suffice to construct a four track viaduct. That this estimate is based upon a careful consideration of all the circumstances involved, is evident from Mr. Wellington's offer to enter into bonds for the completion of the work at the above mentioned figure. This estimate, it will be remembered, is for a four-track structure. Mr. Wellington furnishes conclusive evidence, however, that a two-track viaduct, properly equipped with interlocking signals, would be amply sufficient to accommodate the traffic for many years to come. To show that such is the case, and that most liberal allowance is made for future development, the fact is

