<doctype type="text">April, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	39



Ind., to which four hundred cities have been invited to send representatives. Papers will be read by experts, and the merits of various types of practice discussed. Cedar blocks were extensively used a few years ago, and in the case of streets carrying only light traffic, they have proved, when properly laid, to be very satisfactory. On the other hand, their unfitness for streets bearing heavy traffic has been clearly demonstrated. Less than ten years ago the three principal streets of the City of Toronto, viz., King, Queen and Yonge streets, were paved with cedar blocks. This pavement is now worn out, and must at an early day be taken up. It is due to the status of the city and the health of the citizens, as well as necessary from the standpoint of economy, that these streets should be paved in the most durable and satisfactory manner possible. The City Engineer has been asked to investigate and report upon the material which should be used, and the method of construction.





This choice of materials for a first-class pavement appears to have recently become narrowed down to Medina stone, brick and asphalt. First-class Medina stone costs in Buffalo $4 per square yard; in Cleveland, $3.50; and in Columbus, with a ten inch broken stone foundation, $3.25. It is said to make a very durable and comparatively smooth pavement; not being so hard as granite, is less slippery. Brick pavement has been laid to a considerable extent in the cities of Ohio during the last six or seven years, and appears to be rapidly growing in favor. In the city of Columbus, Ohio, 21 mile of streets have been paved with this material. The brick here used is made of mica shale mined about fifty miles from the city, ground to a fine flour, sifted, mixed with water, pressed, dried and thoroughly vitrified by burning. The cost, including a foundation of ten inches of broken stone, ranged from $2.25 to $2.50 per square yard. Asphalt is already in use on several of the streets of Toronto and Montreal, and appears likely to give satisfactory results. It is, however, open to the objection of being very slippery. The City Council of Detroit recently appointed a Committee to report on the subject of pavements, and as a result of a very full and careful investigation, the Committee made the following recommendations for street paving in Detroit: "1. That no pavements in future be laid in Detroit without a 6-in, concrete foundation and 4-in. tile drain under the curb. 2. That all pavements except asphalt have not less than a 2-in. cushion coat of sand on the concrete. 3. That curb stones, whether of Medina or Berea stone, be not less than ft. in length, not less than 18 ins. in depth and 4 or 5 ins, in thickness. 4. That first-class Medina stone with filled joints be used on all very heavy traffic streets. 5. That asphalt be used to pave the main thoroughfares where the traffic is not too heavy, and on fine residence streets, and that brick be used on other residence and suburban streets. 6. That where wood pavements be used, the joints shall be filled with fine gravel and cement, making the surface water-tight. 7. That Medina stone, brick or asphalt be used for all re-paving. 8. That no pavement of any kind be laid hereafter without a five years' guarantee. 9. That no paving be done on any street until all water, gas and sewer connections have been made, and that a proper ordinance to enforce this recommendation be adopted and strictly enforced."





We observe that the town of Chatham, Ont., has decided to test the brick pavement, provided a suitable quality of brick can be obtained. We would suggest that, in the time which will elapse before the taking up of the cedar block pavements, the Board of Works of the city of Toronto should also make a test of the wearing qualities of brick under heavy traffic. Should it prove satisfactory, the material could no doubt be manufactured within the Province. We have been told on what appears to be good authority, that the city could effect a considerable saving in the cost of asphalt paving by having the necessary concrete foundation laid under the supervision of its own engineers, and only letting by contract the work of laying thereon the 2 1/2 inches of asphalt surface. We observe that the City Engineer has been asked to report upon the advisability of adopting this course.

F

 OR the past few weeks all interested in building work in Toronto have been anxiously watching the movements of the Labor Unions on one side, and the <assoc>Master Builders' Association </assoc>on the other, and all have been wishing to see some sign of an agreement which would save the city building interests from being so demoralized that the season now upon us will be practically lost. Up to the hour of going to press the breach seems to widen, and we desire to cry halt! We do not wish to undertake in this connection a lengthy discussion or comment covering all the complicated questions arising out of the conflict between capital and labor. The position of this journal in regard to strikes and their consequences may be very briefly stated. We consider that strikes, as brought about and managed during recent years, are in almost every instance an unmitigated evil. As a consequence of having stated this opinion, we do not wish to be misunderstood by any member of the Labor Unions as opposing the advancement of his welfare in the least. We believe there is a good and legitimate field for the work of Unions in which the members may properly and successfully seek their own advancement, and would welcome any measure calculated on a right basis for the betterment of all wage workers, but the only basis we are prepared to admit as right for such efforts to rest upon is the old and solid one of supply and demand, coupled with the individual qualifications of one man compared with others in the same branch of industry.



Strikes are to the social or industrial life what war   to the life of a nation—simply the substitution of barbarous methods, and in many cases even brute force, for calm reason in the settlement of differences always arising. And it must indeed be an extreme case and one seldom seen which will justify even an ordinary strike. Any real mechanic should feel himself qualified to compete with the world in selling his labor in open market, and when he places himself under obligations to lay down his tools and go out on strike at the dictation of any number of men and against his own wishes and judgment, he simply places the best interests of himself and family in other hands than his own, and gives away what should be the dearest right of every true man. We are aware that human selfishness is very great, and if labor could make every strike win and secure every increase demanded in wages, it would only be satisfied when there was nothing left to demand, and the industries would be literally struck to death. On the other hand, capital in its own selfish interests would only stop the downward pressure on wages when it had reduced all labor to the level of slavery and wages were barely sufficient to sustain life. That is the tendency of capital if it were all controlled by one selfish individual, or under the too common system of combination. But happily the division of capital into many hands sets all this selfishness to pulling in different directions, and if left to work in its natural course of competition, acts as a check upon itself and a remedy for the dangers which would otherwise exist. And so the conflict goes

on.



Labor unions as a whole and as individuals, seem to lose sight of many of these simple truths, and act on the assumption that force is their only resort. Not that we would say that labor union men are without reason or intelligence ; but we do say that labor unions are not always controlled by the intelligence they possess, and strikes are rarely brought about except by some matter trifling in itself perhaps, and acted on more from bad temper than from the desire to further the general welfare of the community. There are good mechanics now out on strike in Toronto against their own judgment, because a majority union vote says "strike," and these men will and do tell us that they prefer to remain out and let their families and themselves take the consequences, rather than to face the treatment they would otherwise receive at the hands of the unions. Shame on such ideas of manhood! Count up the cost. Grant for the sake of argument that wages have been forced up in some cases by strikers, and that the unions carry the point in the present struggle. Still, if considered in the light of a long enough period of time and as affecting all the industries it reaches indirectly, there is always an irreparable loss to the business prosperity of

