	<doctype type="text">40	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER	April, 1890



any city or country, and this must eventually react to the detriment of the strikers, be they engaged in whatever pursuit. It is perfectly safe to say that the increase of wages gained at the loss of weeks and months of solid working time is no more a profit to the workingmen in the long run, than that the reduction of taxes through license fees from the liquor traffic is a profit to the community after paying the costs and losses entailed by its existence.



A solution of the problems in connection with the adjustment of wages must be recognized as being as difficult as those pertaining to the science of political economy, and a solution which every one will accept as correct and satisfactory may be considered to be well nigh impossible. But some plan for the avoidance of these periodical convulsions in our industrial life we believe must and will be found, however slow its development may be. What we would propose and appeal most earnestly to every man to strive for, is some arrangement of the present difficulties that will set and keep the wheels and machinery moving until the happy condition shall have been brought about when these disputes will be a thing of the past. To that end, and as meeting the immediate necessities of the case, we would suggest for the consideration of labor union men, master builders and every business man in Toronto, that a committee be appointed, to sit as a Board of Arbitration between the building trades and the employers for the city of Toronto, this committee to settle the present difficulty and decide what shall be the standard of wages for the years 1890 and 1891, and the same committee to remain organized for two years and readjust the scale of wages for the years 1892 and 1893, reporting its decision of same to the Trades Unions and <assoc>Master Builders' Association </assoc>on or before Jan. 1st, 1892—the same course to be pursued biennially thereafter. The membership of this Board of Arbitration should be one delegate from each branch of the building trades and one from the <assoc>Building Laborers' Union</assoc>, one delegate from each branch of the Master Builders' Association, and an equal number of architects, to be delegated by the Ontario Association of Architects; making in all about 25 members. Let this Board establish its own rules of procedure, except that the vote of a majority of all its members should decide any question under consideration. After settlement of the questions now in dispute, they would be prepared to receive information or complaints tending to furnish light needed for the next biennial regulation of prices. After that, a new selection of delegates could be made every two years. We believe that the Trades Unions, Master Builders and public generally could and would have confidence in such a body, and that it could be made successful not only as a regulator of wage rates, but could also be made a sort of Court of Appeal for the settlement of any differences now usually ending in a strike. The trades and masters would be evenly balanced and no doubt prepared to protect their respective interests, and the position of mediators would devolve upon the architects. We feel sure that the Master Builders would be satisfied to place themselves in the hands of such a Board and we can see no reason why the Trades Unions should not have all necessary confidence in its fairness and intelligence. Contractors are constantly placing themselves in the hands of architects in a way that involves large interests, and they know that every true architect will endeavor to see that they as well as the proprietor, get fair play. Surely the workmen ought to be ready to have as much confidence as their employers in the reasonableness of the architects. This is one of several apparently feasible plans, which might be suggested for the adjustment of such disputes. For instance, three Superior Court judges might constitute a Board of Arbitration to whom each party to the dispute would state their case and in accordance with whose ruling on all the points submitted, the difficulty would be settled.



After all it is not so important that the Trades Unions and Master Builders shall agree between themselves, as it is for them to agree in such a way and on such terms as the public will approve. Strikers may stop works already under way, but when they want new works started they must wait for the public to

give the orders according as they are satisfied with needs, prices, etc. Who will be the first to move in the right direction? Do the Trades Unions and Master Builders' Association really want peace and plenty, or do they want to continue a most deplorable contest just to see which organization is the strongest?



<article title="The Ontario Architects' Act" author="">THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT.

W

 HEREAS it is deemed expedient for the better protection of the public interests in the erection of public and private buildings in the Province of Ontario, and in order to enable persons requiring professional aid in architecture to distinguish between qualified and unqualified architects, and to ensure a standard of efficiency in the persons practising the profession of architecture in the Province, and far the furberance and advancement of the art o

of architecture

Therefore Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Ontario, enacts as follows

1.	This act may be cited as The Ontario Architects' Act."

2.	All persons who shall cause their names to be registered under the provisions of this Act, shall be, and are hereby incorporated under the name and style of "The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>," hereinafter referred to as The Association

3.	The Ontario Association of Architects shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having a perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of personal and real estate, for the purpose of this Act, and to sue and be sued, in the manner usual with such corporations.

4.	Every person registered under the provisions of this Act, shall be a member of the said association.

5.	There shall be a council of management of the said association, to be appointed in the manner provided for in this Act, and hereinafter referred to as "The Council."

6.—(1) The council shall be composed of nine persons, who shall in the first instance be appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor in Council within one month after the passing of this Act, and shall be British subjects, both residing and practising the profession of architecture within the said Province for at least ten years before the passing of this Act The members of said council so appointed shall meet in the city of Toronto, in the county of York, for the purpose of organization within one month after appointment, at such time and place as may be directed by proclamation iii the Ontario Gazette.

(2). Any five members of the council shall form a quorum

7.	The members of the council so appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, shall hold office for the following terms respectively. the first three names mentioned for the term of three years; the second three names mentioned for the term of two years; the third and last three names mentioned for the term of one year

8.	All subsequent members of the council shall be elected by ballot, in such manner as may be provided for by the by-laws of the association, at the annual meeting of said association or at a special meeting called for that purpose and the member, or members, obtaining the greatest number of votes shall be declared elected.

9.	No person shall be eligible for election to the council, or qualified to fill any vacancy thereon, or to vote for any member thereof unless duly qualified under the provisions of this Act and the by-Jaws of the association

10.	All elected members of the council shall hold office for the term of three years, except as hereinafter provided, and five shall form a quorum

11.—(1) In case of the resignation or death of any member or members of the council not exceeding four, the other members of the council shall have power to fill all vacancies so caused, until the time of the holding of the next annual meeting, provided said annual meeting is not to be held within a period of three months of the occurring of such vacancy or vacancies.

(2)	In case of the resignation or death of five or more members of the council, the president or vice-president of the association, or in case of their, or either of their default for a period of ten days, any five members in good standing, shall have power to call a special meeting of the association upon a notice of not less than ten days, for the purpose of filling the vacancies so caused.

(3)	In case of an election to fill the vacancies referred to in sub sections and 2, the member receiving the greater number of votes shall be considered the member elected to fill the vacancy which will require the longer term to expire, and so on until the vacancies are filled.

12.	In case of any doubt or dispute as to who has or have been elected a member or members of the council, or as to the legality of the election of any member or members of the council, it shall be lawful for the other duly elected members to be, and they are hereby constituted a committee to hold an enquiry and decide who, if any, is, or are, the legally elected member or members of the council, and the person, or persons, if any, whom they decide to have elected shall be and be deemed to be the member, or members legally elected, and if the election is found to have been illegal, the said committee shall have power to order a new election

13.	Meetings of the association and the council shall be at such times

