	38	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	April, 1890



<doctype type="text">operation. The very fact of their anxiety to learn the legal bearings of the case, is, however, a proof that they do not hope to put a stop to scaffolds falling or injury to workmen in consequence by means of the proposed system of inspection. The question then arises, if the inspection is not to be thorough and effective in protecting workmen from injury, of what use will it be? Evidently, little or none whatever. Without being informed as to the legal aspect of the case, we hold to what seems to us the common-sense opinion that if the city appoints inspectors to see that all scaffolds erected are of proper material and securely put up, the contractor is entitled to be freed from all responsibility, and the claims for damages for any accidents which might possibly occur, should be presented to, and if well-founded, paid by the city.



A FEW days ago a structure erected for the protection of

A

pedestrians in front of a building in course of construction on Yonge street, Toronto, collapsed. Fortunately, the attention of a policeman had a few moments before been drawn to its unsafe condition, and placing himself at the entrance he prevented persons from passing under it. But for this, serious injury if not loss of life must have been the result. The unsafe character of this and similar structures in different parts of the city has long been observable, and should accidents result, the responsibility will rest with the City Commissioner's Department. We presume that from this department emanated the by-law compelling the erection by contractors of these structures, and the City Commissioner has a right to see that a device intended for the protection of the public shall not be so carelessly put up as to be itself a cause of danger.





W

E have frequently called attention to the manner in which the by-laws supposed to govern the erection of buildings in the cities of this country are disregarded. Nothing like a determined attempt is made to enforce compliance with the law, and unsatisfactory results follow as a natural consequence. A Montreal alderman expressed the opinion the other day that the duties of building inspector and boiler inspector might be performed by one man. He thought the building inspector was of very little use, for buildings were going up all over the city in contravention of the by-laws. It is not improbable that in cities like Montreal and Toronto the work is more than a single inspector can properly perform. If this be the case, he should be given the necessary assistance to enable him to perform his duties efficiently. Perhaps duties are saddled upon him which do not properly belong to his position, and which take up time which ought to be given to enforcing the building regulations. If so, all such obstacles should be removed from his path. It ought to be sufficiently evident that in the cities mentioned the duties of the position, if honestly fulfilled, are sufficient to task the energies of a single inspector. Therefore the proposal to add to these duties those of an inspector of steam boilers is simply absurd, more especially in view of the fact that the necessary qualifications for a good building inspector will not apply to an inspector of steam boilers. A very great improvement on the present state of things in all our cities would be the honest carrying out of a system under which a correct record should be kept of every building erected within the city limits, and it would be impossible for the work of construction to begin without a permit from the inspector of buildings.



W

E print in the present issue the Act passed by the Legislature of Ontario incorporating the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>. The preamble states the objects to be "the better protection of the public interests in the erection of public and private buildings in the province of Ontario," and "to ensure a standard of efficiency in the persons practising the profession of architecture in the province." These objects would have been attained had the Bill not suffered emasculation in its passage through the House. In the form in which we present it to our readers, and in which it will be placed on the statute books, it can scarcely be said to afford much protection to the public or

to ensure a standard of architectural efficiency. The Bill as originally presented, constituted it a punishable offence for any person to call himself an "architect" who was not registered as such under the Act. By substituting for the title "architect" the words " registered architect" the Legislature defeated one of the main purposes of the Bill, viz., to make the word "architect" a guarantee of the capability of the person using it. Notwithstanding that the Act in its present shape is in a great measure disappointing to the Association, it should be considered as one step forward in the direction of securing for the architectural profession the recognition and respect which is its due, inasmuch as it enables the public to distinguish between the qualified and unqualified practitioners. It is well that this view should be taken, and that every member of the Association should register as a "Registered Architect" under the Act. The Association will then be in a position to put forth united effort at future sessions of the Legislature to have such amendments made in the Act, as will make it effective in accomplishing the objects of its promoters.





F

AME and fortune are awaiting the individual who shall perfect a method of heating buildings, especially residences, at less cost than is entailed by the present expensive systems. The amount of money annually expended by the people of this continent for fuel, would we doubt not, prove truly startling were the figures at hand. Let us endeavor to arrive at a rough estimate of the coal consumed every year in Toronto residences. Placing the population at 180,000, and supposing the average family to consist of five persons, we have, say, 36,000 families. These might be divided into three classes, viz., poorest class, 15,000 ; middle class, 12,000 ; highest class, 8,000 A fair approximate estimate of the annual cost of fuel to these three classes would, we think, be about as follows highest class, $150; middle class, $75 ; poorest class, $40. Basing our estimate on these figures, we have a total expenditure of $2,700,000 for fuel in the residences alone of the city of Toronto. These figures represents, perhaps, less than one half the total expenditure in this direction were public buildings, factories, etc., to be taken into the account.



We are pleased to observe that successful experiments are said to have recently been made, and a patent based thereupon applied for, in the United States, for the purpose of utilizing electricity for heating purposes. The plan is said to provide for a central plant but the manner in which it is proposed to convey the heat to the buildings is as yet unrevealed. In the building to be heated it will be distributed by a system of pipes similar to the furnace pipes now in general use, except that no hot air will be allowed to escape until it is distributed by radiation into the desired rooms. About percent. of the heat from furnaces is lost before it can be distributed where it is wanted. By the proposed system, if successful, none of the heat will escape until it is distributed through registers into the room, and this saying of heat will be so directly in the path of economy that the inventor claims that electricity can be used for heating houses wherever coal is used, and that it will cost no more than coal, and he thinks considerably less. The purchaser of electricity by this plan would pay only for what he uses. When the desired temperature is attained in a room the current can be completely closed or reduced, as may be desired, and a meter will record the amount of electricity used. A spring on the house registers will close the electric current, and up-stairs registers can be closed by a device on the ground floor. The results of this and other experiments designed to give us a more economical method of heating will be watched with much interest.



T

HE subject of street paving is at present engaging much attention throughout the American continent. Investigations are taking place in many cities to determine the wearing qualities of various kinds of paving materials, and the methods of construction which are calculated to ensure the best results. So great, indeed, is the interest aroused in this subject, that a street paving exhibition is to be held shortly at Indianapolis

