	<doctype type="text">April, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	41



and places as may be fixed by the by-laws of the association or council respectively; and in the absence of any rule or regulation as to the summoning of meetings of the association, or of the council, it shall be lawful for the president, or in the event of his absence or death, for the registrar to summon the same at such time and place as to such officer seems fit, by circular letter to be mailed to each member.

14.	In the event of the absence of the president from any meeting, either of the vice-presidents, or in their absence, some other member to be chosen from among the members present, shall act as president.

15.	All questions submitted to the association, or the council, shall be decided by a majority of the members present, not being less than five in number in case of the council, and twenty in case of the association.

16.	At all meetings the president for the time being shall have only a casting vote.

17.	There shall be paid to the members of the council such fees for attendance, and such reasonable travelling expenses as may be fixed by by-law passed by the association at the annual meeting.

i8.	The council shall annually elect from among its members a president and two vice-presidents, and shall appoint a registrar, treasurer, solicitor and such other officers as may be necessary for the working of this Act, who shall hold office during the pleasure of the council, and who shall, as well as being officers of the council, hold the like position as officers of the association.

19.	The council shall have power to fix by by-law the salaries or fees to be paid to such officers, and to the board of examiners hereinafter appointed

20 The council shall have power and authority,

(1)	To appoint an examiner, or examiners, for the purpose of ascertaining and reporting upon the qualification,

(a)	Of all persons who shall present themselves for admission and enrolment as students at any of the matriculation, preliminary, intermediate or final examinations.

(2)	To make all necessary rules, regulations and by-laws respecting the admission and registration of students, the periods and conditions of study, and the enrolments of architects as members of the association and all matters relating to the discipline and honor of the profession.

(3)	To regulate and fix the annual admission fees payable by architects and students, and to make all rules, regulations, and by-laws, necessary for the proper working or carrying out of the provisions of this Act.

(4)	To enact by-laws as to the terms upon which it will receive the matriculation or other certificates of colleges and other institutions not in the Province of Ontario.

21.	Any student who has matriculated in arts in any university in Her Majesty's dominions. or in the Ontario School of Practical Science, shall not be required to pass the preliminary examination.

22.—(I) Any person practising the profession of architecture within this province, on the coming into force of this Act, may become a member of the association, by causing his name to be registered with the registrar of the association within three months from the appointment of such registrar, and by paving to the registrar such fees as may by by-law or otherwise be made payable in that behalf.

(2)	In case any such person as aforesaid omits to be registered within said period of three months, through absence, illness, or inadvertence, such person may, at the discretion of the council be admitted to enrolment as an architect.

23. Any other person who applies for admission to registration as an architect after the coming into force of this Act, shall not be less than twenty-one years of age, and shall have served as a student not less than five years with principal or principals entitled to register under this Act, or with any other principal or principals approved by the council and have passed such qualifying examinations as may be required by this Act.

24.—(1) All students desirous of entering the profession of architecture shall be presented by a member of the council, and shall cause their full names to be entered with the registrar, and shall pay such fees, and submit to such examinations as shall be necessary in that behalf; provided that any person who, before the passing of this Act, was entered as a student for a shorter term than five years, but not less than three years, with a principal or principals qualified to be registered under this Act, or with any other principal or principals, approved by the council shall, on serving the full term of his indenture and passing the examinations prescribed by the council, be entitled to register under this Act.

(2)	Notice and evidence of existing studentship shall be given to the registrar within six months after the passing of this Act, and shall be accompanied with such fee as the council shall from time to time direct, and with properly executed articles of indenture for the said term.

(3)	Any person who has graduated from the Ontario School of Practical Science shall be required to serve only three years as a student, one of which three years may be served during the vacations of such school.

(4)	Upon and after the passing of this Act, students shall serve such term as is required to be served by the provisions of this Act, under indenture, to a registered architect, which indenture and any assignment thereof with affidavit of execution thereto attached shall be filed with the registrar upon payment of such fee as the council may by regulation direct.

25.	From And after the first day of July, 1890, no person shall be entitled to take or use the name or title or Registered Architect,' either alone or

in combination with any other word or words, or any name, title, or description, implying that he is registered under this Act, unless he be so registered Any person, who, after the above date, not being registered under this Act, takes or uses any such name, tittle, or description, as aforesaid, shall be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $25 for the first offence, and not exceeding $100 for each subsequent offence

26.	The registrar of the council shall, in every year, cause to be printed, published, and kept for inspection at his office, free of charge, under the direction of the council, a correct register of he names, in alphabetical order according to the surnames, with the respective residences, in the form set forth in schedule A to this Act, or to the like effect, of all persons appearing on the general register on the first day of January in every year, and such register shall be called The Architects Register," and a copy of such register for the time being purporting to be so printed and published as aforesaid, shall be evidence in all courts, and before all Justices of the peace and others, that the persons therein specified are registered according to the provisions of this Act; provided always, that in case of any person whose name does not appear in such copy, a certified copy under the hand of the registrar of the council, of the entry of the name of such person in the register, shall be evidence that such person is registered under the provisions of this Act.

27.	If the registrar shall willfully make, or cause to be made, any falsification in any matters relating to the register, he shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be unprisoned for any term not exceeding twelve months.

28.	Any person who willfully procures, or attempts to procure registration under this Act by making, or producing, or causing to be produced, or made any false or fraudulent representation, or declaration, either verbally or in writing, that he is entitled to such registration, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be sentenced to imprisonment for any term not exceeding twelve months.

29.	There shall be paid to every registered architect summoned to attend any court, civil or criminal, for the purpose of giving evidence in his professional capacity, or in consequence of processional services rendered by him as an architect, for each day he so attends, in addition to his travelling expenses (if any), and to be taxed and paid in the manner by law provided with regard to the payment of witnesses attending such court the same fee or allowance as is payable to provincial land surveyors

30.—(I) All fees payable under this Act may be recovered as ordinary debts due to the association, and all penalties under this Act may be recovered and enforced before one or more justices of the peace, in manner directed by the Revised Statutes of Canada, chapter 178, entitled the Summary Convictions Act, and any Act amending the same.

(2)	Any sum or sums of money arising from conviction and recovery of penalties as aforesaid, shall be paid immediately upon the recovery thereof by the convicting magistrate to the registrar of the council.

(3)	Any person may be prosecutor or complainant under this Act, and the council may allot such portion of the penalties as may be expedient towards the payment of such prosecutor.

31 Subject to the other provisions of this Act, all notices and documents required by or for the purposes of this Act to be sent, may be sent by post, and shall be deemed to have been received at the time when the letter containing the same would be delivered in the ordinary course of the ma", and in proving such sending it shall be sufficient to prove that the letter containing the notice or document was prepaid and properly addressed and put in the post. Such notices and documents may be in writing, or in print, or partly in writing and partly in print, and when sent to the council or other authorities shall be deemed to be properly addressed if addressed to the said bodies or authorities, or to some officer of the council or authority at the principal place of business of the council or authority, and when sent to a person registered under this Act, shall be deemed to be properly addressed if addressed to him according to his address registered in the register of the association.

32.	All moneys arising from fees payable on registration or the annual renewal fees, or from the sale of copies of the register, or otherwise, shall be paid to the registrar of the council, and by him paid over to the treasurer, to be applied in accordance with such regulations as may be made by the council for defraying the expenses of registration and the other expenses of the execution of this Act, and subject thereto towards the support of museums, libraries, or lectureships, or for other public purposes connected with the profession of architecture, or towards the promotion of learning and education in connection with architecture.

(2)	The council shall have power to invest any sum not expended as above, in such securities as shall he approved by the Government of the Dominion of Canada, or of the Province of Ontario, in the name of any three of their number appointed as trustees, and any income derived from such invested sums shall be added to and considered as part of the ordinary income of the association

(3)	The association may also use surplus funds or invested capital fur the rental or purchase of land or premises, or for the building of premises to serve as offices, examination halls, libraries, museums, or for any other public purpose connected with architecture.

33 The registrar and treasurer of the council shall enter in books to be kept for that purpose, a true account of all sums of money by them, or either of them, received and paid under this Act, and such account shall be

