



<doctype type="text">$500,000, or as near that amount as possible. The English born architect residing in the States was not limited in Cost. His design will Cost $2,000,000, and then be only an ordinary non-fireproof building. The fact that the first contract let exceeded the appropriation, shows how little care was taken to erect a building within the means of the province, or what the Government stated at first was within the means of the province. <person>Mr. Waite'</person>s design was never submitted to an expert, for the very good reason that it was never in a position to submit until after the construction of the building was commenced. It is a doubtful matter if the Ontario Government even knows at this date exactly what they are to receive when the completed buildings are handed over to them. The conduct of the Government when dealing with the Canadian architects is in very strong contrast with their method of dealing with the Buffalo individual. In the one case everything must be arranged for, even to the laying of the gas and water mains from the city mains over to the building, so that the total cost of the building may be ascertained with the exception of the cost of the furniture ; in the other the work is let piecemeal, and no idea of the total cost is obtained except the estimates of the architect, who may have furnished the Government with an accurate and reliable estimate, but such estimate cannot agree with the amount stated by the Government as being sufficient, as Mr. Waite has stated to outside parties that the cost of the building would be not less than $2,000,000. The above is a statement of the main facts of the <building>Parliament Buildings </building>business up to date. That the Government does not consider their conduct above reproach is shown in the pamphlet which they have issued. If they considered that what they have done was done in the interests of the province, they would not stoop to so low a level as making glaring and misleading statements with the purpose of deceiving the people. We hope that the pamphlet is not so barren of truth in all its pages as is page 41. One such falsehood should be sufficient to satisfy the highest ambition of any modern Anannias.



SOMETIME ago the Church of England appointed a committee to formulate a scheme whereby church architecture might be improved, It was felt that many of the churches which were being put up in different parts of the country might be very much improved in their architecture if some care was taken to select artistic designs. What this committee has done we do not know, but we suspect that it found the task too heavy a one to overcome. The Presbyterian Church has also appointed a committee with the same object, but little has been done, and it is very doubtful if anything will result from their attempt to improve the architecture of their churches.



It is an undeniable fact that ninety per cent. of our churches are entirely devoid of any artistic quality, and the greater number of the remaining 10 are not what they should be. The reasons for the inferiority of church architecture are many. In the greater number of instances, the congregation are unable to build an expensive or even a moderately expensive structure. They must be satisfied with such a building as will accommodate their members and they can afford to erect, In a few instances they are satisfied with this, but generally they desire to have what they believe will be a beautiful building, and they erect one which may be very much designed, but which is simply ugly on account of its many useless and extravagant features. In the opinion of many, a building of simple parts is devoid of artistic merit, while the building. of many parts is one of beauty. A building of simple, well-proportioned design looks so simple to the ignorant individual that he at once assumes that he could design one of equal merit, and that consequently it does not amount to much. The building of many lines, no matter how badly proportioned or how inharmonious, puzzles the same individual, and he immediately worships what he does not understand and believes he could not do. What a blessing it would be if the unnecessary architectural features on our churches, yes, and on our homes, were done without, and their cost devoted to other purposes of a legitimate character.



The impression is also prevalent that the services of an architect are not required when there is little money to be expended, that they are only necessary when a costly and elaborate building is to be erected. This is a mistake. The cheaper the building the more care should be taken with its design, and a competent architect should be able to design a small and simple church that would not cost much more than the very plainest and ugliest building which could be erected, plus his fees. Now the trouble lies in the fact that the congregation look upon money paid to an architect as so much lost, and the architect does not care much for the work of designing a cheap building, as it requires much more time and study than it would if money were more plentiful. The consequence is, that the thoroughly competent architect cannot afford to design such building at the remuneration that he can more costly structures, and he refuses to do the work, consequently such work goes to the incompetent, who are prepared to do it for the usual commission or very much less. The building committee cannot discern any difference between one architect and another, so they employ the cheap article, They have another reason for employing the incompetent man, for he will work into the building, provided he is able, all the pet ideas of the members of the committee, thus giving each member of the building committee the opportunity of claiming to have designed the building. The competent man will not do this, and therefore he is in their minds incompetent, besides being more expensive. It is useless to hope that affairs will improve very much until our people have some artistic perception. They all would like beautiful things, but they do not know what constitutes beauty. They have also an idea that art after all is a commodity which can be bought if they only pay enough. Believing this, they strive to obtain bargains, and not knowing the pure article from the counterfeit, purchase the counterfeit. Here and there a church of artistic proportion is erected. Such buildings will have an influence for good, and as more are built the artistic education of our people will be advanced.



The Vestry of <building>St. Paul's Cathedral London</building>, of London, desire to improve the Cathedral Instead of making intelligent enquiries to find the architect best able to do the work they desire to have done, they advertise a competition of such a character that no competent man, or in fact any man who respects himself or his profession, will have anything to do with it. The result will be a set of designs sent in from the least competent men, from which one will be selected; and the one selected will very possibly not be the best one submitted, as the Vestry is to be the judge of the respective merits of the designs. One would have expected something better from a city of the size of London than an attempt such as this to secure a design for alterations to an important building.



We have still another example of the methods adopted by church building committees to select an architect. A Presbyterian congregation of West Toronto Junction desired to build a church to cost about $30,000. The first thing they set about doing is to select an architect, and the method adopted was to put the work out to tender and obtain the man who would do it for the smallest remuneration irrespective of qualification, It matters not one iota to them whether the lowest bidder was competent or incompetent so long as he claimed to be an architect, and could show a set of plans. The full commission would be, say, $1,500, and if they could get it done for $600, well, it was just $900 saved in hard cash, though it might be that the return would be a building intrinsically worth only $25,000, or even as low as