<doctype type="text">May, 1890	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER 51



would, never could get his plans passed without endless trouble and annoyance, until at last he learned from the Inspector himself that the reason was "he had done nothing towards smoothing the way." In another case a scalawag "architect" paid the Inspector to annoy a good architect who had recently set up in the neighborhood.



As to the form of specification to accompany the application for a permit, the one in use in Montreal is as simple and clear as need be, although it is a question whether it is any use supplying answers to questions which, unless the Inspector is a model, he is not the least likely to look at. There are two forms in use in that city, one for new buildings and one for alterations to existing structures; and in about two dozen questions a thorough description of the method of construction, thicknesses of walls, dimensions of joists, etc., etc., is elicited. We doubt if the Inspector takes the trouble to calculate the strains and weights that each floor is likely to be subject to, so as to ascertain whether the specified sizes of joists are sufficient, but undoubtedly if he passes such a description and they ultimately prove insufficient, the blame must in a measure rest upon him, because the manner in which the building is to be occupied or the purposes for which it is erected are described at length. Without doubt a very efficient form could easily be drafted, and by the aid of practical and unbiassed minds a good scheme could be worked out, whereby the feast trouble would be given to qualified architects, while at the same time jobbing practitioners would be hindered from endangering the lives of the public. Looking round about us we see many buildings going up at the present time which would never have been allowed to be carried out in their present forms if there had been a responsible Inspector to examine the plans. We do not want a good-natured man, who sometimes likes a little bit of bullying, and who if you go to work in the right way with him, will pass any kind of construction without examination. What we want is an educated, practical architect, who knows his duties and fulfils them impartially.	_____________________





ON page 41 of a pamphlet entitled "The Record of the Mowat Government; 18 years of Progressive Legislation and Honest Administration ; 1872-1890," is the following statement relating to the erection of the <building>Parliament Buildings </building>"Indeed, after the discussion, all that was left of the matter was the statement that the architect of the works was an American, though the fact was that he was born in England, and had of late years been residing in Buffalo. He secured the appointment after a fair competition, expert judges deciding that his plans were the best." The last sentence is a glaring and deliberate falsehood. In fact the statement should be characterized by the use of a word of three letters. Mr. Waite did not secure the work after a just competition, and the fact that he secured the work is proof sufficient that the competition was not a fair one. We do not know how the expert judges, who were the Hon<person>. Alex. Mackenzie</person>, Messrs. <person>W. G. Storm </person>and <person>R. A. Waite</person>, could decide that Mr. Waite's design was the best sent in, as Mr. Waite had no design in or he would not have been one of the experts.



The facts are that there was a competition in the year 1880 when thirteen sets of plans were sent in. Six of these plans were sent from the States, seven from Canada. Three designs, all from Canada, were awarded the three premiums, the winners of the first prize being Messrs. <firm>Gordon & Helliwell</firm>, of Toronto. Two designs were placed first and second in merit, but were not considered as entitled to the premium, as they exceeded the money limit very materially. These designs were submitted by Messrs. <firm>Darling & Curry </firm>and <firm>Smith & Gemmell</firm>. The Government at first decided to erect a building according to the plans of Gordon & Helliwell, but finally determined to have Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell, Darling & Curry and Smith & Gemmell compete a second time to determine which of their plans would be most suitable. This competition was held, and it was then determined to ask Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell and Darling & Curry to prepare a full set of working drawings with specifications, that the work would be tendered for and the relative cost

of the two designs arrived at to a certainty. These two firms did make such drawings on the distinct understanding that one or the other would be selected to erect the building, and that the defeated competitor would be paid a fair compensation for the preparing of their design for tendering. Working drawings were prepared by these two firms, and tenders were received as follows Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell's design, furnished complete, $542,000; Messrs. Darling & Curry's design, $612,000. The Government decided that the Province was not in a position to expend that amount of money, and abandoned the erection of the building for a time.



In 1885 the Government obtained a vote of $750,000 for the erection of the building, claiming that that amount was amply sufficient, as they had tenders of $542,000 and $612,000 for two buildings either of which would serve the purpose of the province. Up to this time the Government architect had been consulted as to the proceedings taken after the experts in the first competition had handed in their report. By the way, we may here remark that this report has never been made public, a most unusual thing, as all such reports are published for the information of the competitors. Mr. Waite, however; without any authority whatever, informed the Mail of the substance of that report, and that paper published the information received from him on the 4th of December, 1880. It embraces nearly one and three quarter columns of matter, and any one who desires may by reading the article get a fair idea of the substance of the report. Immediately after the session of 1885 the designs of Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell and Messrs. Darling & Curry were entrusted to Mr. Waite that he might report as to which of the two was the more preferable. Why the Hon. Alex. Mackenzie and Mr. W. G. Storm were not associated with him we do not know, but presume that the Government have such knowledge. Instead of Mr. Waite reporting in a few weeks, as he might have done and should have done, be did not hand in his report until eight or nine months had elapsed. It may be that the difficulty of deciding between the two designs required that amount of time to determine their respective merits. It is, however, surmised that the delay was rendered necessary that Mr. Waite might worm himself into the confidence of some members of the Government, and also quietly impress upon the Government that in his opinion neither of the designs was suitable, and that he was the only architect on this continent capable of carrying out such an important work, It is also surmised that before sending in his report he had in the kindness of his heart prepared sketch plans which he approved as being much superior to the designs then in his possession. It may be that this is the competition which Mr. Waite entered and which was so fairly conducted by competent judges. We have been informed that he sent in a report condemning the designs of Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell and Darling & Curry. This report, like the first one, has never seen the light of day, nor has Mr. Waite condescended to furnish an epitome of its contents further than to circulate statements which were false.



It would seem that Mr. Waite was employed upon the preparation of his design for months before the fact became known, the Government not having the common decency to inform Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell and Darling & Curry that they had decided not to erect the provincial buildings according to either of their designs before giving Mr. Waite the commission. This courtesy to the Toronto architects was more than due, as they had prepared their designs at a large outlay to themselves, and had waited the convenience of the Government for some five years. <person>Mr. Fraser</person>, in making explanations to the House as to the payment to them for their rejected designs, claimed great credit to himself and the Government for the way in which he had shelved them at a small expense to the province, and showed that if compound interest for the five years was deducted from the amount paid, the actual payment would be very much reduced. This is an example of an economical and "honest administration," which is sufficient to cause a none too scrupulous man to blush for shame. Now, the Canadian architects were forced to design a building

