<doctype type="text">	56	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	May, 1890



this continent a more compact form of house for easier heating, while the roofing problem and the avoidance of snow-traps, has been the means of clipping the wings of many a flight of fancy planning.

In planning a house, the first thing to be borne in mind is the purpose it is expected to serve—that it must be fit to live in, and secondly, with the maximum of convenience and comfort compatible with the means available. There are certain rules evolved or developed by custom or convenience which govern the science of house-planning—simple when the wants are few and the house inexpensive, and gradually becoming more complex as wealth. expenditures and desires increase.

It will probably be of most practical use for us to-night to consider the planning of houses costing from five to twelve thousand dollars, as being the class with which we in the city have most to do.

Before proceeding with the analysis of the house-plan, a few moments devoted to the question of aspect will be advisable. Beggars cannot be choosers," no more can the architect dictate to his client the choice of a lot, neither can everybody live on the sunny side of the street.

The ideal position of the dining room is on the south-east corner, the sitting or family room should be on the south side, or should have an uncovered south window the kitchen should be on the cool side of the house and every living room (bed rooms included) should receive the direct rays of the sun during at least a few hours of the day. These are points which need to be constantly and carefully borne in mind.

The aspect compass (Fig. I) so called by <person>Prof. Kerr</person>, author of the English Gentleman's House," will be of material assistance in so laying out the plan as to obtain the maximum amount of sunshine in the various rooms. The direct rays of the sun are seldom disagreeable in the winter, and it Is only the level beams of the declining western sun which, in summer more  particularly, penetrate the house far enough to be disagreeable. The summer sun, during the mid-day hours, is so nearly vertical as to be easily kept out, while the mornings are rarely 100 warm for the easterly rays to prove uncomfortable.

The Entrance should have some special feature giving it such a measure of prominence as to leave no reasonable doubt in the mind regarding its purpose. It should not be a mere hole in the wall, and if at the hack of a

The drawing room should not be square in plan, but if necessarily so,

can be greatly improved by the judicious location of a bay or ingle, or even in the grouping of windows and placing of doors, It should also if possible have more than one doorway—two doorways, even should they open into the same hall, are of great help in the entertainment of a considerable number of guests.

Irregularity of plan is also of great assistance to a hostess, breaking up a













































































































company into separate groups. Irregularity of plan, however, should not be carried to the extent of leaving insufficient wall space for furniture, two large spaces at least should be provided for the larger and more cumbrous articles.

Where means and space permit. a reception room, in addition to the drawing room is desirable, and may open into that apartment with portieres, or for greater privacy with sliding doors, the drawing room may then become the more retired apartment and be used, to a greater extent, as a











verandah, should be so treated as to be easily distinguished from a jib-head window If a choice be possible. a south or east aspect is preferable, thus avoiding the coldest winds which are from the north and west A loggia or recess is a great protection from side winds. A western entrance may be made comfortable by having a porch with the opening facing south (Fig.

2).

The entrance should not be placed, in our climate, where it will receive the full effect of a snow slide from the roof. If a hood or porch is impracticable, a broad dormer may be located directly above the door, or a gable worked in to obviate or divert that which is always a dangerous nuisance. When a carriage porch is provided, it should never be so placed that four passengers will be compelled to wait while the carriage is being filled.

The hall should never, in our climate, have direct connection with the entrance door—a vestibule should be interposed. If the vestibule door can be placed at a right angle to the entrance it will tend to prevent the sweeping of a sudden gust of wind through and chilling the house, should both doors happen to be open at the same time. (fig 2) The nearer a square form, the more convenient, as a rule, will the hall be, requiring less travel to reach any particular room, also making easier the heating of the house.

The stairs should be so placed as not to expose the upper hall to view from the entrance, and where practicable, a \ of most of the staircase is both preferable and more picturesque in effect.

Where a hall fireplace is introduced it should be in a cosv nook away from drafts. If this cannot be secured, it would be as well to omit the feature.

If a lavatory cannot be so placed as to be inconspicuous and Out of hearing, its absence is to be desired.

Where the ground floor accomodation is limited to three rooms, the reception or drawing room should be the readiest of access from the entrance It would often be most inconvenient to be compelled to lead a chance caller to the reception room past the door of a family apartment such as a sitting or dining room.

family room. In most houses of moderate cost, the second room usually becomes the sitting room and library combined. Of course when the head of the house or some member of the family is of decidedly literary tastes, it becomes necessary for the proper prosecution of his rea writing or study to have a special apartment, be it ever so small When absolute seclusion is desired it may be necessary to locate the library on the first or even on the second floor The family sitting room is convenient to be rather square in form, permitting a group to form around the table, and it may be made a more interesting room by the addition of an ingle-nook. or

