		 <doctype type="colophon">PRICE 20 CENTS

VOL. III.—No. V.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, CANADA, MAY, 1890.	$2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition - The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),

PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY in EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	- TORONTO, CANADA.

TEMPLE BUILDING MONTREAL.



SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities



The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.



The publisher of the " The Canadian Architect and Builder" desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint for this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



OUR MONTREAL OFFICE.

I

N order to further extend the influence of this journal, keep en rapport with everything of special interest pertaining to the science of construction within the Dominion, and serve in the most effectual way the interests of our subscribers and advertisers, we have established a permanent office in the city of Montreal. It is located in the <building>Temple Buildings Montreal</building>on St. James street, and being in the heart of the business portion of the city, is convenient of access. We shall be glad to welcome there old acquaintances as well as any new ones. All enquiries relating to the editorial or business departments of the paper, presented personally or by letter at our Montreal office, will receive prompt attention.



IT	is not surprising to learn that the appointment of a competent street commissioner saved the city of Hamilton

upwards of fifteen hundred dollars in one month. On the same principle, we hesitate the opinion that in the erection of buildings costing $10,000 and upwards, the interests of economy and faithful workmanship demand the supervision of the work by a competent clerk of the works. The buildings erected in Canadian cities in future will be, it is fair to assume, of a more costly and important character than heretofore, and something more than the periodical inspection of the architect will be found necessary for the protection of the client's interest.

T

HE enquiry into the causes of the St. George bridge disaster in the courts of Toronto, is one of the most remarkable in its importance as well as in its attending circumstances that has ever engaged the attention of a Canadian judge and jury. Its great importance lies in the fact that upon the verdict hang heavy claims for damages brought against the <firm>Grand Trunk Railway Company </firm>on behalf of persons to whom suffering and loss were caused by the accident. The investigation which was recently brought to a close occupied a period of ten weeks, during which time 122 witnesses and 137 experts underwent examination. At the conclusion of all this testimony, the judge requested of the jury answers to 37 questions which he

had prepared bearing upon the case. One of the most important opinions expressed by the jury is that the railway

company was guilty of negligence in running the train at an unreasonable and improper speed, viz., about 50 miles per hour, using a tire too thin, and not applying the brakes at the proper time, and that the result was caused by such negligence. The matter will be further argued before a decision is rendered, and is likely to be carried eventually to the Privy Council.



W

E very much regret that the difficulties between the Toronto master builders and their late employees appears to be no nearer solution than at its beginning. Indeed, to all appearances the breach between the parties to the dispute has widened. Both have refused the offer of mediation made to them through the City Council. It may possibly be that they can show satisfactory reasons for so doing; if so, the public would seem to be entitled to know them. The workmen were the first to refuse to take part in a conference for the adjustment of the dispute, and it may be that in consequence the masters felt themselves called upon to pursue a similar course. If only the parties directly connected with the strike were affected by it, they might well be left to continue the struggle as long as it suited them to do so. But when their conduct affects in the most serious manner the prosperity of the entire community, the laws should be so adjusted as to compel them to submit their differences to an impartial tribunal for settlement, Such a tribunal should be composed of judges of the Superior Courts or persons similarly placed in a position to pronounce impartially upon the matters in dispute. Before such a tribunal, upon the occurrence of a disagreement, both the parties thereto should be compelled to send a representative to present their case, and by the decision of the Court they should be compelled to abide. Simultaneously with the establishing of such a court of arbitration, it should be made a punishable offence for any body of men to inaugurate a strike, It is time that the Government should provide some such means as this to remove the possibility of the present annually recurring disputes.





N

OTWITHSTANDING all that has been written on the subject, the terms of architectural competitions announced by clerical and other corporations in this country, grow more and more ridiculous. The latest estimate of the value of an architects time and ability comes from the church wardens of <building>St. Paul's Cathedral</building>, London, Ont. These gentlemen gravely

