<doctype type="text">May, 1890	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	55



a considerable extent to the southwest corner, which has already to carry, independent of its own weight and weight of floors, 19 tons. This probably is the cause of the crack from floor to ceiling in south wall on ground floor. The bond-stone on the west side is broken through the centre.

On the north wall of the chimneys to the depth of six courses, directly under the point where the heaviest load is transferred, as indicated in Fig. 2, there have been laid five courses of red brick that has crushed slightly under the load. One cannot see any earthly reason for this, as the rest of the chimney is built of hard, grey clinker bricks, the red brick being of a sandy nature, and much more liable to crush.

A glance at Figs. 3 and 4 gives the relative position of the face line of the superstructure with the work below. The set-off on the ground floor is 4 1/2 at the first floor, the 1' - 10 1/2" wall that is carried on the beams sets over about 2". The metal

	____	_

























 



































 

                      















 

/________

castings that have been placed up the face of this pier are similarly set over each other, and on the east side a metal shoulder has been cast on the column to catch the I beam above. The



other ends of these beams rest upon one of the flanges of the three beams that run east and west, Fig. I. One cannot understand the reason for carrying them in this manner, for practically the whole of the load comes upon the flange of one beam. There is no reason why these two beams should not have rested upon the top of the three beams running east and west. The three beams do not cross over to the opposite wall, but are cut off short, and there is no way in which they are stayed except by being bolted through to the other beams. They are supported in a stilt-like fashion upon an iron column. The load where these beams meet is fifty-four tons.

Through one of the windows overlooking the area we saw a bricklayer at work quite innocently cutting away the brickwork in the basement and weakening the bond to insert or with

draw a sill or something, and tons of masonry up above him. A glance upward reveals a very rough job of brickwork setting over in two or three places about of an inch, and exhibiting in consequence a somewhat rustic appearance.

Walking along the corridor, we pass an array of iron columns arranged in Indian file supporting a stretch of 54 lineal feet of masonry and fire-proof flooring. At the north end of the corridor is an iron column supporting a weight something over eighty tons on a pad stone 3' 0" x 2' 0" x 8".

Fig. 2 is a plan of the chimney showing the position of the beams resting on the chimney.

Fig. 2 is an elevation of the chimney, looking at it from the north-east corner, showing the openings, etc.

Figs. 3 and 4 is an elevation of the north wall of chimney, showing the way the masonry and iron columns are first set back and then set over.

Fig. 5 is an elevation of the inside wall, with voids dotted diagonally.

The above loads do not include the weight of roof, and only 70 lbs. has been allowed per superficial foot of floor, which is only two-thirds of what should be allowed.



<article title="Some notes on house-planning" author="Burke, Edmund">SOME NOTES ON HOUSE-PLANNING.*

BY MR <person>EDMUND BURKE</person>.





ONE of the first essentials in a good house-plan is simplicity, As a rule, the complex plan is that which has received the least study.



Messrs. <firm>Burnham & Root'</firm>s plan for the <building>Kansas City Exchange</building> is remarkable for its simplicity as compared with most of the others in the competition, but It was the result of most careful study, revision and elimination.

Their method of planning Is to prepare several schemes, carefully compare each with the other, and finally select that which gives the greatest and best accomodation in the simplest and most direct form—having due regard, of course, to exterior effect. Usually a thoroughly good plan will compose well.

The writer, in preparing alternative plans, has almost invariably selected the simpler as being the most satisfactory solution of the problem, and has usually, in competitive work. been placed high or low in the scale in ratio to the simplicity or complexity of his planning This point, simplicity, cannot be too earnestly insisted upon

A poor plan, a crude plan or a complex one may be, and often is, a continual source of discomfort to the occupants of a house, especially to the wife, as housekeeper, and to the servants, while one which is carefully considered and thoughtfully put together, is of the most material assistance in the smooth-working of the domestic machinery.

To plan a house successfully. as <person>Prof. Osborne </person>in his little treatise on the Art of House-Planning, says We must understand the special wants and natures of the clients; and so must often, to be thoroughly successful, stand for the time being in the relation of father-confessor, to whom must be un



Aspect Compass



folded all the inner life of the family, the tastes and even peculiarities of each member of it, in order that the house may be molded to them, and not they to the house"

Unfortunately, in these days of sudden wealth, we frequently have for clients those who have practically no individual tastes or preferences, and who can only explain their requirements by referring to Mr. So and So's house as being something like what they want.

It is a very interesting study to compare the house plans of different nationalities Take the most familiar and accessible to us—the English and American. The contrast between English and American house plans may be accounted for, to a considerable extent, by the differing conditions of the labor market in connection with domestic service. The abundance of that description of labor in Great Britain has in the past contributed not a little to careless and diffuse planning, thereby increasing the work of the household, and necessitating a large staff of servants—and this often the case in unpretentious houses. and with incomes comparatively small.

The conditions of the domestic labor market in comparatively new countries, such as the United States and Canada, as well as the lack of means. have conduced to more careful and scientific planning—to the elimination of all unnecessary passages, extensions and roundabout ways, and to the invention of many labor saving appliances, which have been born of necessity.

Climatic conditions have also necessitated in the northern portions of



 Paper read before the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Sketch Club</assoc>.

