	<doctype type="text">54	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	May, 1890

<article title="New Toronto Board of Trade Buildings" author="">

THE NEW <building>TORONTO BOARD OF TRADE BUILDINGS</building>.

T

HREE or four months since a portion of one of the walls of the new Toronto Board of Trade buildings gave way. Although the occurrence of the accident became known, particulars concerning it appear to have been carefully withheld from the public.

Statements which recently appeared in one of the daily papers, alleging that the accident was due to faulty construction, drew public attention to the matter, and the dismissal of <person>Mr. Pudifin</person>, the contractor, by the architects, followed a few days later. The latter disclaims all responsibility for the accident, and is seeking the aid of the courts for the purpose of vindicating his position.

An inspection of the building was recently made by a committee of gentlemen on his behalf; and subsequently on behalf of the Board of Trade by the well-known engineering expert, Mr. Wellington, of New York, and Mr. <person>W. T. Jennings</person>, City Engineer of Toronto. The result of these inspections has not yet been made known. Meanwhile all sorts of stories have been in circulation concerning the condition of the building. This was the natural consequence of the closing of the building against public inspection, and of what appeared to be a desire on the part of some of the officials of the Board to keep the condition of affairs a secret.

The work being in a sense one of a public character, we felt it to be our duty to seek to ascertain for ourselves and lay before

















 





 

 











 

 

 

 





 













 







our readers the true condition of affairs so far as we might be able to ascertain them. Having obtained the consent of the President of the Board of Trade, we paid a visit to the building a few days ago with this object, and present below the different aspects of the case as we found them, without prejudice, leaving our readers to form their own conclusions in regard thereto.

On the east side of the building our attention was arrested by a heavy prop in a door way (fig. 5). There we noticed that something had evidently gone wrong, for the pier had been taken down and rebuilt in hard grey brick and cement. This, then, is the place where the accident happened, and we proceeded to follow it out according to the plans. On climbing the ladder to the third floor, it was found that instead of the brick walls shown on the plans, the partitions were built of terra cotta brick. But let us trace out the cause of the accident. At this point we find a load of 43 tons on end of beams, and taking the pad stone the same size as the others throughout the building—14 1/3 tons per superficial foot. We now proceed to the ground floor, and find the size of pad stone for beams to be 1' 6" x 2' o" x 10", and the weight on the pier 80 tons, or 20 tons per superficial foot. This pier has at some time since the accident been taken down and built in cement. The points of weakness around here have been faced up with 1 1/2' metal castings.

We are led to believe that this was an afterthought, and the

reason for it is seen in Fig. 4. Another instance occurs where

the casting had to be cut to fit around a beam. The cause of the accident has been ascribed by the architects to the additional weight imposed upon the building by the heavy fall of rain on the night of Feb. 4th being absorbed by the terra cotta of the floors. The rain fall on that night was 0.16, making the total weight covering the entire area of the whole building



 

















































FIG 



something less than 60 lbs, which was sufficient in the opinion of the architects to bring down the walls which fell.

 A few yards northward there is a crack in the south wall of chimney on ground floor from floor to ceiling, and a walk round the chimney reveals the fact that there is something radically wrong here.

We go into the basement and find the walls only 14" thick, and set off on ground floor line to 9", and from this point run up about 100 feet. We find also on the east wall an opening 2' o" x 2' 0" close to the ground, and a crack from floor to ceiling.











 

 

 























 























FIG 3 FIG 4



as indicated on Fig. 2. Upon crawling through this opening we were astonished to find another opening in the north wall, 2' 6,, x 5' o", and the top portion, as indicated by dotted line on Fig. 2, built up with straight joint, practically leaving the opening 2' 6" x 5' 0". Climbing up the inside of the chimney, we find it very rough, and on the south wall a "hog," whereby the courses are thrown 3" Out of level, and the weight transferred to

