<doctype type="text">May, 1890	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	59



<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER " COMPETITION

ESSAY ON HEATING AND VENTILATION.

" author="">"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER " COMPETITION

ESSAY ON HEATING AND VENTILATION.

ZEB.



T

HE subjects of heating and ventilation should always be inseparably considered in the construction of any edifice designed to be inhabited ; and the reason for this is obvious, since one system is so dependent upon the other for its action.

ESSENTIALS OF HEATING AND VENTILATION.



We do not find the essentials which insure a good working of both systems to exist always together. The reason of this may be found, sometimes, in the misplaced idea of economy of a proprietor, but most often, it results from the difficulty experienced with some, of applying a properly selected system to suit each particular case.

We may conclude that, the object of the two systems being not only to provide comfort for the home, but above all to make it healthy, the selection of a proper mode is most important, and that the qualities necessary to secure the above ends are that the apparatus should be docile of management, permitting to obtain at will any degree of heat required ; also, that notwithstanding the variations of temperature which may result therefrom, the air in the room should maintain an even standard of punty with the absence of any discomfort from draughts of air

APPARATUS FOR HEATING.



Every system has its friends as well as its enemies ; only, some would have fewer opponents if a bad application of them was not so often made.

No particular system will give scientifically perfect results, but some get nearer to it than others.

The Chimney.—Owing to the climate in this country, little difficulty has ever been experienced in constructing a chimney which will act well. The section of a chimney should be square or perfectly round, as such forms insure a more even warming of their inner walls, and prevent, thereby, counter currents of cold air descending the flue, as happens sometimes when the section has the form of a parallelogram and is too large. We need not insist that a tall chimney will draw better than a short one. The diameter of a flue for an ordinary room need not exceed 6 or 8 inches, and the velocity of the draught should not be more than six feet per second ; Galton recommends that one square inch be allowed for every 50 or 6o cubic feet of space.

With inlets for fresh air, chimneys will always draw well.

Fire-places will always be popular, but the main drawback with them is the difficulty of renewing the fresh air in the room to replace that carried up by the chimney in sufficient quantity without causing some draughts of air. To obviate this inconvenience many forms of chimneys have been invented, the best known of which is that of "Galton's" constructed with a false back, forming an air chamber, communicating with the outer air which permits it of delivering in the room about the same amount of fresh warmed air as escapes by the chimney. This form is more economical also than the common one, as giving with the same amount of fuel about 30 per cent. more heat.

Stoves and Furnaces.—These two modes have prevailed at one time to a greater extent than they ever will again. One of the greatest objections to their use is that they provide air at an excessive temperature on its entering the room. An even and constant temperature is also difficult to obtain with the hot air system, for the least change in the intensity of the fire is instantly felt at the register, either by a diminution in temperature or an excess of it, as the case may be. True, in the latter case, the heat can be checked by closing the register, but the supply of air is affected and ventilation ceases. General Morin suggests as a cure to this objection that the regulation of the temperature of air before entering the room may be obtained by having a mixing chamber where cold air is admitted when necessary, thus giving more comfort without affecting ventilation. But the main drawback with this system is the difficulty

of accomplishing an even distribution of heat throughout the house. It has been observed (Michel Levy, Traite Hygiene Publique, 1879) that, "in places where furnaces are used, the inmates show unmistakable signs of anemia, and that such a fact has also been observed among all classes in those countries where porcelain and iron stoves are in use." How far this may be true in regard to this country we are not prepared to say. It is conjectured, however, that the nature of the air is changed by coming in contact with an intensely heated metal surface, but the precise nature of such a change has not been yet explained, but it is known that the uncomfortable feeling resulting from the aspiration of such air is due in a measure to the fact that its power of absorbing moisture is then greatly increased (which is equivalent to its being made dryer). Hot air is disagreeable when it contains less moisture than 50 per cent. of its point of saturation (Peclet), though this standard may vary according to circumstances.

STEAM HEATING.



This system is no doubt superior to stoves and furnaces in many ways, but it is not without possessing some disadvantages, too. One of them is, that no heat is obtained in the radiator until the water in the boiler has reached the boiling point (212). This in itself is no serious objection, but the fact that the temperature of the radiators must always be that of steam is a decided objection in some particular cases, Then a vigorous fire must always be kept up so long as any heat is needed, otherwise, the temperature lowering, the supply of steam ceases, and the radiators cool instantly. The noise in the pipes resulting from the condensation of steam can be pretty well overcome by the use of automatic valves.

It has been observed by an author (<person>Dr. Billings</person>, Boston), that "more constant and skilled supervision is necessary with this apparatus than with the hot water system." The rapidity with which heat can be radiated and the great power of the system certainly favors its adoption in many cases in preference to the other systems.

It can also be applied to ventilation, but as such application is costly and extensive its adoption will scarcely ever be made outside of large establishments. We have read of such an application to a theatre in Hamburg, if we mistake not. It consists in having all the radiators placed in a large chamber situated below the pit of the house the hot air from this room is supplied to different parts of the theatre above by ducts and orifices in the floor. The temperature is regulated below by partly controlling the inlet of cold air, and also by having a greater or less number of radiators in operation at a time, as circumstances may require. A system analagous to this is in operation in the John Hopkins hospital in Baltimore.



HOT WATER SYSTEM.



This is the system par excellence, and which is growing in favor every day; though it is not recent, for the first apparatus used for this kind of heating was invented in France by <person>Bonnemain</person> towards the end of the eighteenth century.

The circulatory movement of water through which heating is secured by this system, depends upon the difference in density between hot and cold water; thus it is, that water after being treated in the boiler ascends the pipes, and as it cools in its course through the radiators, returns to the boiler and enters it at the base. The chief advantage of this system lies in furnishing a more constant and milder temperature, with less fire and care than is possible with any other mode. Its facility for regulating the temperature by simply controlling the flow of water in the radiators is no less in its favor. The system is less fickle than any other in its action on account of the great mass of water contained in the pipes being once heated, does not cool very rapidly if the fire should get low, for, once hot, it will require a comparatively small fire to keep up a good temperature. It is calculated by some that after the fire is out the temperature of the room will be maintained five or six times longer, than is possible with steam under similar circumstances.

We may summarize as follows That every system possesses some bad points as well as advantages. The improved form of chimney such as already mentioned is a great adjunct to ventilation, besides its heating qualities, but it would be best in some cases to have some other means of heating at command besides it.

Of the hot-air system, we cannot say much beyond the fact that its promptness and vigorous power may recommend it in some cases, but the difficulty of distributing heat evenly, already mentioned, may sometimes prove a great objection.

The steam system possesses the advantages of the hot-air system without some of its faults. Its application commends itself to those large edifices which require to be well heated at short notice and for short intervals.

Hot-water should in general be preferred to any other system, especially for the home, it being considered less costly and more easy of management than any other.

Pure air is an absolute necessity for the maintenance of health. We will not cite any example in support of this beyond

