<doctype type="text">May, 1890	THE CANADIAN AND BUILDER	57



by a bay where a good view is to be obtained, It should be the costliest room in the house, facing south, when practicable, and when attainable have a view of the sunset.

The dining room is one of the most important divisions of the house, and should always receive special attention in planning. Where a breakfast room is provided, the question of the aspect of the dining room is not of so much importance, except that it should never be dependent on the west for its sole or chief light. The level rays of the declining sun would make a room thus lighted very uncomfortable for its occupants at the evening meal, while in summer the room would be made disagreeably warm. The southeast corner, as before mentioned, is the most pleasant position for the dining room, it being, in the majority of homes, used also as a breakfast room.

window between the two pantries, thus forming an additional barrier to the passage of kitchen odors.

If the kitchen be placed in the basement, the dumb waiter should never be carried directly from it to the dining room—it should be located in a separate room or pantry on both floors. The service pantry should be large enough for a commodious dresser for china, etc., and for a sink with drainer

A refrigerator in or near the service pantry is also a great convenience, saving many a journey to the cellar and enabling the mistress of the house to retain control of many a dainty which would otherwise become the property of some "follower" or chum of Bridget. A mistress' pantry, even though small, is for a like reason very desirable.

The kitchen, as before mentioned, should be convenient of access to the dining room, should be placed, if possible, on the cool side of the house, lighted on two sides—preferably opposite—to permit of cross draught and good ventilation. The windows should not overlook the verandah, entrance or lawn, unless set up too high for vision. The kitchen table, when meals are eaten from it, ought to be placed as far from the range as possible, and



























Where the room is, of necessity, placed on the south side, a bay window will be of advantage in catching the rays of the early sun. When placed on a north-east corner, the period of sunshine may be lengthened by a similar device The entrance to the dining room should be removed somewhat from the main thoroughfare (fig. 2), and out of the range of a chance caller or unbidden guest—in fact it should be a truly family room, to which only the specially invited guest may have access. The inevitable odor of cooked food will also be less likely to make its presence noticeable. Unless the house is limited to two rooms, it is better that the dining room should not open into a reception room, It is often convenient and pleasant to have it in connection with the family sitting room, but doors should always be provided in order that the room may be effectually disconnected at will. The connection with the kitchen should never be direct, but at the same time the distance should be as short as possible, consistent with the proper isolation of the culinary department. The break should consist of a short hall or a service pantry, or better still, a combination of the two, and the doors should not be opposite each other, in order to prevent a direct view by a guest of the interior economy of the cooks domain, If the kitchen abuts directly on the dining or other rooms, the wall should be deafened to prevent the inevitable kitchen sounds being beard. Sometimes closets can be interposed.

The minimum size of room sufficient for six persons is about 12 X 14, and this would only be possible with any degree of comfort where the fire-place and sideboard are placed at the ends or corners of the room A good width is 14 to 15 feet, and 16 or 17 is quite sufficient for any establishment less than a palace. 2' 4" is considered the minimum allowance required for each

in such position that a cross draught may cut off the heat, thus making life in this apartment more bearable. A small room for use as a servants dining and sitting room is a great boon, and conducive to long and con. tented service. Like the kitchen, it should not overlook the lawn, etc., and it should be placed near the kitchen.

The fixtures in the kitchen should be placed as much as possible to one side of the room, away from the line of traffic, and should Consist of the range, sink, drainer, table and dresser a small second table and a gas stove are additional conveniences for which space should be planned. If no laundry is provided, fixed tubs should also be placed in the kitchen. The most convenient position for the laundry or wash room is on the same floor as the kitchen it can then, also, be used as a scullery, relieving the kitchen of the dirtier portion of the work. When the laundry must be placed in the basement, it should be approached by outside steps, protected by a porch, only a few steps being then necessary to reach the yard, passing through the kitchen will thus be avoided. The same porch may be made large enough to contain also the steps from the kitchen door to the yard.

If possible to be avoided, the back or servants stairs should not lead directly out of the kitchen, as in that case they become a sort of flue to draw all the odors to the bed room floor, A back hall should be arranged to contain these stairs; when this hall connects with a side entrance it should have a vestibule. It is well to so place this entrance that persons using it will not require to pass through the yard, the gate to which may be kept locked for the exclusion of tramps and clothes thieves.

Some of the points referred to may seem trivial when taken up in detail, but none are beneath the study of a careful and painstaking architect, and























guest at table, and a dozen may be comfortably seated in a room 20 feet in length. The fireplace should be so placed as not to be a source of discomfort to the occupants of the table—for this reason it is better to place it at the end or corner of the room. If means will permit, an ingle may be introduced, removing all cause of discomfort, and making a cosy nook for an after-dinner chat, (fig. 4).

The position of the windows is of decided importance, and the injudicious disposition of them may prove a source of discomfort. Light from the end of the room is the most pleasant, but one person being in shadow. The windows should not be grouped, and should have a central blank space of considerable size. Where the room is long, it will be advisable, if practicable, to introduce a side window, which should be placed towards the opposite end.

The plans shown indicate the simpler method of disconnecting the kitchen. (figs. 3. 4.) Where the size of the establishment permits. it may be made more complex. For instance, the cook's pantry may be interposed between the kitchen and the butler's pantry, and the only connection a hatch or pass

when combined, go to make up a convenient abode where labor is reduced to a minimum, and where everything has a place and a place is provided for everything.

Time has not permitted of reference to the upper floors. There are many points demanding careful study in the planning of the bed rooms, the location of the bath and dressing rooms, wardrobes, closets, etc., which will well repay careful study. The four sketches (figs. to 8), taken from Prof. Osborne's book, show graphically the anatomy, as it were, of the thorough. fare, and its relation to the various functions of the house. It may be laid down as a safe rule, that if the analysis of a given thoroughfare plans results in confusion, a mixing up of guests. family and servants, it is a proof that it is imperfectly developed and demands further study. The dotted and solid lines on these plans indicate the routes of the three classes.

The plans of an artist's house, by <person>Norman Shaw </person>(fig 9), are admirable in the disposition of the thoroughfare, the isolation of servants apartments and suitability for the purposes of entertainment and the display of statuary, pictures and bric-a-brac. The position of the kitchen in relation to the dining room is scarcely in accord with our ideas of convenience.

Two plans (figs. 10 and 11) of English houses are given as examples to be avoided, and as showing a complete lack of study of the scientific disposition of the thoroughfare plan—very slight and obvious changes would result in less work for the servants and far greater comfort for the members of the family.

