		 PRICE <doctype type="colophon">20 CENTS

VOL. 111.—No. VI.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, CANADA, JUNE, 1890.	$2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods, 

(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	- TORONTO, CANADA.

 TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL.



SUBSCRIPTIONS

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Will be mailed to any address in Canada

or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will he continued until Instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward news. paper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.



The publisher of the The Canadian Architect and Builder' desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery o] this Journal to every subscriber. and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



T

HE recent heavy rains are said to have caused severe loss to brickmakers in Toronto and its vicinity. A very large proportion of the bricks intended for burning in the second and largest kilns of the season were dissolved into a shapeless mass, and in consequence bricks this season at least are likely to he at a premium.



T

HE Canadian customs authorities are at present very much exercised in attempting to prevent the importation of an alleged scandalous American newspaper. Might we be allowed to suggest that a matter of greater importance awaits their attention, viz., the method by which the American architect of several large buildings now in course of construction in Canada succeeds in getting his plans for the same into the Dominion without paying duty thereon. The protection which is supposed to be afforded Canadian architects by the tariff will be of no benefit whatever until steps are taken to prevent the wholesale smuggling which for several years past has been carried on under the noses of the customs officers.



D

OMINION Government engineers recently visited Montreal and examined the plans, etc., in connection with the proposed scheme for the improvement of the harbor. Their report, which has just been presented to the Minister of Public Works, states that owing to the variable effects of the ice flow— being seldom alike for two consecutive seasons—care should be taken not to rely upon uncertain theories. It is recommended

that careful study should be made of the valuable information obtained under the direction of the Montreal Flood Commission of 1886, and of the action of the ice in the harbor in connection with any projected work of improvement in the upper part of the harbor of Montreal before the Government could be advised to sanction unconditionally the construction of any such work.



W

E have several times called attention to the fact that the building by-law of the city of Hamilton as a dead-letter. It provides that within certain defined areas no materials other than iron, stone or brick shall enter into the construction of new buildings or additions to existing structures. Also, that the plans must be submitted to and have the approval of the Building Inspector, on whose permit alone the construction of the building may be undertaken. A few days ago a citizen summoned a neighbor before the courts for having violated the law, when the judge's enquiries elicited the information that although the by-law had been in existence four years, a Building Inspector had never been appointed, and in the absence of the necessary machinery for putting it into operation, structures of every character suited to the tastes of the owners had been going up within the fire limits. Probably as the restilt of this exposure of the condition of affairs, we are pleased to observe that the city council have appointed a Building Inspector in the person of Mr. <person>Peter Balfour</person>. Under his direction let us hope, a correct record will be kept of the number, character, location and cost of every structure hereafter erected in the city. It is also to be hoped that the construction of no building will be allowed to commence until the plans thereof shall have been approved and a permit granted by the Building

Inspector.	___________________





I

T is, we believe, not generally known that Canadian property owners in these closing years of the nineteenth century are still subject under certain circumstances to provisions of British laws whose enactment is said to date back to the reign of Queen Elizabeth. Such is however the fact, absurd though it may appear. Under one of these old statutes an action was recently brought in the Toronto Courts by the manager of an incorporated company to prevent a neighboring firm from increasing the height of their buildings, on the ground that their doing so would interfere with the side-light which the plaintiffs had enjoyed for a period upwards of twenty years. The plaintiffs claimed to be entitled under the statute in question, to a sky-line at an angle of 45 degrees from their lowest side-light sill. Notwithstanding that the building the height of which it was proposed to increase was separated from them by an open space 40 feet in width, and would in reality have no appreciable effect upon their side-light, they absolutely refused to accept any offers of remuneration for their alleged deprivation, and the defendants were obliged to alter their building in such a way as to comply with the requirements of the statute. Another case to which our attention has been directed is that of a firm who are prevented from building upon the rear portion of their property because the windows of buildings on land adjoining have overlooked and received light from this vacant space for a period of twenty years. An Act recently passed by the Ontario Legislature will for the future

