<doctype type="text">June, 1890	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	67



they are asked if they do not see fit to make a stand against it. While the workingmen remain in their present condition (the obedient slaves of the unions), it becomes cowardly for a proprietor to insist that a builder should complete his contract. Our poor workingman, led like a tame bull with a ring in his nose by a scheming adventurer who is gradually sucking his blood and becoming wealthy in the process, refuses, at his order, to do a stroke of work until he is promised higher pay. Very well, that is the position, if we will look at it correctly. The master builder does wrong when he says "All right, do what you like, I will not pay you a cent more !" He should turn to his employer and say, "will you pay the increased demand ?" and if the terms of his contract do not admit of his asking the question, he should see that in future they do. If the proprietors collectively say "No!" the work stops—stops till the unions are forced to give in, stops till their power is gone. Then let the workingman be raised out of his slavery, and, when fit as a man, let him be treated as man.

Respectfully yours,

FAIR PLAY.



<article title="Building Contracts" author="Denton, Frank">BUILDING CONTRACTS.

Editor CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—The following is, I believe, contained in nearly all the contracts between contractors and owners that I have seen, and the blank contract from which I have taken same has a statement at the top thereof that the contract is approved by the architects and builders of Toronto, namely: "The proprietor shall pay the contractor in manner following :—eighty per cent. to be paid by the proprietor on account of the contract, and all additional works, as the work shall proceed, on the value of the same, which value shall be in proportion to the amount to be paid for the whole of the works and additional works, the balance of the contract and all extras to be paid within thirty days from the completion of the said works, and after the contractor shall have rendered to the architect a statement of balance due to him. And it is further understood that in case a/several contractors being employed on the works, no trade is (o be considered complete till Me other several contracts are a/so completed." The

italics are mine.

It has always been to me a matter of surprise that contractors would consent to a clause in the contract such as above quoted.

It seems to me that it might be a matter of great hardship to contractors for the stonework, excavating and brickwork, and even many of the other contractors that they should have to remain out of twenty per cent. of what was due them until after the last work had been done upon the building, which in the case of large buildings might mean years.

I am not, sir, writing for the purpose of having any dispute with any person, but should be pleased to see a controversy on this question, so that if it be a fair clause to have in the contract all may understand why.

I have the honor to be, etc.,

<person>FRANK DENTON</person>.



TORONTO, June 6th, 1890.



<article title="Rot in Timber" author="">ROT IN TIMBER.

ONE of the questions of the day in the building world is, "How to pre serve timber incorporated in buildings from decay.' There are many systems as there are many causes, and as the cause varies in every instance, so often this or that system of cure is at fault, when applied to a particular case.

Decay in timber usually occurs from exposure to alternate wet and dry atmospheres, but the rot which causes us so much trouble is produced where the atmosphere does not change much. This rot is of two kinds, generally known as "wet rot' and "dry rot." Wet rot shows itself where, in the case of wood being imperfectly seasoned, gases form in the wood, but owing to ventilation they are able to escape. Dry rot, on the contrary, is the result of the same gases, which being unable to escape owing to want of ventilation, remain on the surface of the wood and form a fungus very difficult to get rid of, and very contagious in its nature

Wet rot will occur in a growing tree, but if the wood be thoroughly well seasoned the rot may be prevented from appearing in the converted waad when built into a building by painting or carefully sheltering it. The disease of wet rot is not spread except by actual contract, whereas dry rot spreads by dissemination of the germ of the fungus.

Air confined and without much moisture encourages the growth of the fungus, which eats into the wood. Warm, damp and stagnant air are sure

to produce dry rot, while the simple want of sufficient ventilation will be cause of rot in one form or another.

Dry rot usually appears in the flooring beneath which there is either no ventilation, or where. with little ventilation existing below, fires are kept burning above, as by this means moisture is drawn up from the soil.

Ends of timbers built into walls re nearly sure to be affected by dry rot, unless they are protected by iron shoes, or lead or zinc. The same result is produced when joinery or other woodwork is secured to walls before they are dry.

Shavings left under floor boards are a sure cause of dry rot, and painting or tarring unseasoned wood is an injurious custom as it only shuts in the gases and dry rot is the result.

When once dry rot gets a firm hold in a building it is very hard to remove it entirely. Like fever germs, so the germs of the rot are carried about and fasten on walls or other timbers where they germinate to the destruction of the material.

Of the ordinary remedies, the first is a sweeping one, but often, and in fact more often than not, the only actual cure . Substitute new timbers, brickwork or other material, for the affected parts, and carefully clean away every particle of the fungus; afterwards apply a wash as mentioned below

Coal tar, or a weak solution of vitriolic acid with water is most effective, and pyroligneous acid is also very good. Sometimes a solution of corrosive sublimate, an ounce to a gallon of hot water, or a solution of sulphate of copper, half a pound to a gallon of hot water, will prevent the spread. But where rot occurs from want of ventilation. nothing short of supplying air will be effective.

So much for cure, now a few words on prevention. In a paper on 'The Preservation of Timber" read at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancelnent of Science held a few months ago in Toronto, four methods were mentioned as having proved successful: (a) "Kyanizing (so called from the name " Kyan' of the inventor), or preserving wood with corrosive sublimate (bichloride of mercury): (b) "Copperizing"

—Margary's process—soaking the timber in sulphate of copper; (c) "Burnettizing" (Sir W. Burnet) steeping in chloride of zinc, (d) "Creosoting" with dead coal tar—this is known as " Bethel's process.

The first two methods are gradually falling into disuse, and & the latter, cresoting is the most effective. But it was stated that cross grained woods, such as white oak and chestnut, should not be treated at all. The more porous woods, such as hemlock, bastard pine and beech, take the treatment well. and as a result last twice as long as when without it.

Creosoting is effected by extracting the moisture and air from the tubes of the timber and then forcing in kreasote (oil of tar). commonly called "creosote," at a high pressure. The timber after being dried is placed in a closed wrought iron cylinder. The air is extracted from the cylinder and from the timber within it by means of a pump. Creosote at a temperature of 1200 is forced into the cylinder and penetrates the wood under a pressure of 170 lbs. to the square inch. Creosote must be thick, rich in naphthaline and free from ammonia. The amount of creosoie pumped in depends upon the nature of the wood and the purpose for which it is intended. Sapwood absorbs more than the heartwood. Fir and other softwood will take from 10 lbs. to 12 lbs. per cubic foot. while oak and other hardwoods will take little more than from 3 lbs. to 4 lbs. per cubic foot. For softwoods a form of this process may be applied by simply heating or drying the timber over fires, and placing it while warm in hot creosote; but the timber must under all circumstances be seasoned first.

The effect of creosote is that it coagulates the albumen of the wood, fills up the pores with an oily liquid, destroys insects and fungi and repels worms, excludes moisture and prevents dry rot.

A principal cause of dry rat is constantly employed by builders—so common is it that one might almost think they consider dry rot an advantage to a building rather than otherwise. A carpenter finishes up the boarding of a roof and leaves it exposed to all weather until the roofer is ready to go on with his work. Rain falls, and the boards are soaked and water runs and, drips inside, then before the boards have had time to dry, the roofer comes and lays on his roofing felt, and on the top of this puts his slates. We have often seen the woodwork of roofs under a foot of snow. and the roofer sweeping off the snow to lay his felt, utterly regardless of the result. Once this is done there is no ventilation, and dry rot will be the result. First to save the expense of covering the woodwork with a tarpauline the proprietor runs the risk of having to reconstruct his roof at no very future date.

As to the danger of dry rot few examples will show how carefully timber should be examined, A building begun and carried up to the second storey floor beams, was left unfinished and exposed to all weather for four years. The floor beams were of 18" X 14" sawn, reversed and bolted, each trusted with a piece of oak 4" X 3", the ends rested on stone templates and were built into the wall in mortar. There was very little to indicate decay externally, but the centre of each was prayed to be quite rotten, sometimes far a length of 4 ft. or ft., sometimes the whale beam, and the oak in all cases was more decayed than the deal. The fungus appeared on the surface like a fine cobweb, the ramifications branching out in all directions of a cream white and dark brown color. The fungus had spread through the brick walls so that much brickwork had to be removed. The only effectual cure was the removal of all the affected material.

Dry rot appeared in a beam that gave support to a brick wall over an

