<doctype type="text">June, 1890	THE	ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	65



guitar. The ever popular ventriloquial sketches were given by Mr. <person>Harry Simpson</person>, while Mr. <person>J. B. William'</person>s humorous readings completed the programme.

Owing to lack of response the competitions announced for last month have been postponed, and will be put on the programme for the first meetings in the fall.

During the summer members will have the following outings, when sketching, building inspection and photography will be indulged in, according to the taste of those present :—The start will be from club rooms at 2 p.m. sharp, Saturday, June 28th, July 12th, July 26th, Aug. 9th, Aug. 23rd.





<article title="Committee's report on Toronto Architectural Guild Competition" author="Darling, Frank, Gambier-Bousfield, R.W., Townsend, S.H.">COMMITTEE'S REPORT ON <assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL

GUILD</assoc> COMPETITION.

T

HE Guild offered a prize for the best design for a country church in the style of the Late Decorated Period, and another for an essay on any period of the history of architecture, as a stimulus to students to take up architectural styles as a study. The result has not been satisfactory, and goes to show how little interest apparently students in general take in this important side of their profession. It was not intended that the prize to be offered should strike the mercenary chord in a student's breast, and therefore it was not large, but it was expected that the students would respond to the offer of the Guild and receive the encouragement held out to them. Essay writing is not an easy matter, but no one has made an attempt. Of the designs sent in (only two sets), that of " Tyro" is placed first. The author, who submits four sheets, plan, elevations and sections and one sheet of details, deserves great credit for the study he has given to the subject, and his endeavors to reproduce the principles of the style. There are points about his details which are worthy of special notice. The window tracery is good, placed flush with the walls. The cusping is correctly drawn. As a piece of design, apart from the rest of the building, the west front is very creditable, although his treatment of the upper part of the gable to counteract the drawn up effect of his lofty gable, is somewhat commonplace. The circles are not good, although the intention is well meant. A clerical error is the position of the string course below the projection of the buttress weatherings; it should either form the projection of the weathering itself, or else the projection of the weathering should be omitted when in this connection.

The belfry has a somewhat heavy base, but it is picturesque. The main fault about the exterior is that its proportions are those of an earlier style. The pitch of the roof is far too high, and the wall plates might have been lowered some 6 or 7 feet with effect. Constructionally the roof is not strong, and it is entirely outside the style. The doorway of the main porch is the worst feature of the design—instead of being English at all, it is what the ordinary Philistine would call "Modem "; it is feeble, and its label mould is out of all proportion. But credit is decidedly due to the design of the rose window in the east gable.

Now as to the plan: the general proportions are very good. A fair sized vestry is a very necessary adjunct to a country church where there is no other room provided formal meetings and so forth. The font is in a correct position near the door, although the minister's step should have been placed where he would face the altar. Some accommodation is lost by the position of the pulpit which, though usually on the left side, might here have judiciously been placed upon the right. A door from the church yard to the organ chamber is quite unnecessary, and not good for the organ. No arrangement seems to have been made for the heating, a matter of the highest importance in this climate, and one which requires careful study. A chimney in a church is a good test of ability in design, and to attend a church without heating apparatus is mortifying to the flesh with, a vengeance.

"Notus" has gone in more for outward effect than for either correctness of style or good planning. He has altogether failed to grasp the idea, and submits a design in a poor American modem style. He has produced a picturesque effect, which apart from this competition does him credit, but this was not the requirement. He has made no study of detail, but has incorporated such work as a village carpenter is usually capable of executing. We would advise him to study good ancient examples rather than the pictures of the American Architect.

In plan the church is a failure, quite unsutted to the English church service. There is no chancel except that a portion of the nave is raised as a platform; the sanctuary is a separate edifice, but even here "Notus" has failed. His narrow steps at the Communion Table would be the first detail that would displease the parson. The school room, though not asked for, is well placed, but for the entrance to the church the author has gone to greater expenditure than a village congregation is at all likely to afford, and one which is altogether out of proportion to the effect secured.

"Notus" has provided a large basement, for heating purposes we presume, but with a flue in one of the buttresses and another in the vestry fire-place. We fail to see the utility of the large flue at the back of the vestment closet. It cannot be intended as the bottom of the vestry flue as it is altogether out of place. The roof is heavily timbered and the proportions of the various timbers are carelessly indicated. The form is more suitable for the school house than for the church. Its construction is hidden by a ceiling and is out of style.

"Notus" should study the requirements of his parsons and their congregations before effect.

<person>FRANK DARLING</person>.



<person>R.W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD</person>.

<person>S.H. TOWNSEND</person>.





<article title="the Sun Life Assurance Company Building Competition" author="">THE SUN LIFE ASSURANCE CO. BUILDING COMPETITION.

TORONTO, May 27, 1890.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—In your issue for this month you have given an illustration of the second premiated design for the <building>Sun Life Assurance buildings Montreal </building>in Montreal, sent in in a competition which was settled some months ago, and you have thus afforded those interested in the matter not residing in Montreal, an opportunity of seeing a design that according to the man who examined them was worthy of second place, but which according to the conditions of the competition ought not to have had a place at all. I am not saying that it is a bad plan, or finding fault with the design at all—that is not my purpose here—but what I wish to draw your attention to is the utter disregard of the "conditions" by the so-called "expert" who pronounced upon the designs, thereby inflicting a great injustice upon other competitors and showing how unfair was the decision. After the "conditions" were issued, it was discovered that the person who had calculated the areas of the rooms required, had exceeded the limit of the site, and a circular was sent round to the competitors advising them of this, although no doubt many had discovered the error for themselves, and, like myself, had written to the authorities to ask what they desired to have altered, so as to bring the requirements into the area of the four walls. The answer received was sufficiently satisfactory, but it did not allow of any additional space being taken up on other floors. It simply reduced some of the areas given, and left it for the competitors to arrange as they best could. Now a binding clause was that the "Board room," "two agents' rooms," "lunch room " and two additional rooms and lavatory, etc., should be on the second floor, but should occupy only a part of it, and that the rear part should be entirely separated from the front part of this floor by a solid wall, and having communication only with the floor below, upon which were the main offices of the company.

This particular condition was the one that caused most men the principal difficulty in arranging the plan, and had we all done as the author of the second prerniated design has done and ignored this condition altogether, the planning would have been far easier. But because he has either overlooked this condition or been unable to make a place in conformity with it, <person>Mr. Knox </person>(whom I understand was the "expert"), thinks he is entitled to the prize. Surely this is very scandalous. You will readily understand that it must be far easier to get a certain number of rooms of given sizes, which sizes together are in excess of the given area of the site, into two floors than into one and a half floors, which was a stipulation. If you have got two boxes, and

