<doctype type="text">	78	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER	July, 1890



layer is to be deposited. All work in the process of hardening should be protected by a temporary plank covering.

In brick-work, one Sometimes finds broken brick, spawls and fragments used to fill up chinks in the backing of a brick arc, It is almost unnecessary to say that broken bricks are not to be used except as closers.

Failure is frequently found to take place at an angle or pier because the line of pressure has not received proper attention. Another defect is a want of care in selecting the proper material in the wall work adjoining the angle. This is true. of course, only in stone masonry. Generally a corner or an angle is built up with extreme care (where such corners are built up in the solid), and the supporting walls are made up of stone of variable sizes and indifferently bonded and the result is a settlement or break in the supporting wings. In angles or corners toothed in and anchored by means of irons, as practised in this city, the angle or corner is in reality the weakest portion of the building.

It is not necessary to try to prove that bonding fresh work into work that has been set or hydrated for days by means of toothing. supplemented by anchorage, is a very poor substitute for solid corners or angles. If there is any doubt in the matter, It will be necessary to examine but few of the present structures in our streets to be satisfied of the truth of this assertion. Corners and exposed angles should, more than any other part of a building, be a matter of especial care in construction as they are generally the most exposed to the action of the elements, and exhibit the first signs of decay. This is seen on chimney corners, apices of cables, tops of walls, brackets and cornices. In England lead copings are used to a large extent. In this country asphalt has been used, Portland Cement at times and stone copings the most frequently. Slate slabs, one and one-half to three inches in thickness, according to the width of walling to be protected, form a splendid protection against weathering. In some of the better class of buildings, earthen tiles are used as copings, but it is proper to remark here that where such tiles are used the top surface should be glazed, and the joints be lap-joints, laid in lead and caulked, or in asphalt properly applied.

The temptation to span every large opening with an arch, using deep voussoirs, and backing this up by a relieving arch, has brought many a contractor to expensive grief. Precedents cannot be relied upon to guard against the thrusts of an arch, for each arch built is a separate undertaking, its load may vary considerably from what apparently a similar arch sustained, and the consequence is that us construction involves a new problem in mathematical "pyrotechnics," as some contractors have derisively termed the calculations. The most frequent cause of failure, however, is due to disregard of the piers or abutments upon which such arches are placed. It is a very good rule to avoid the placing of an arch in such a manner that its opening is partly over an opening below it. In other words it should spring from a solid pier with no break in it to the foundations, in line with the point of springing And when supported by piers alone, such piers should be loaded sufficiently from above to withstand the thrust of the arch which acts upon the pier to overthrow it. In technical language the moment of stability of the pier must exceed the moment of thrust of the arch.



 <article title="correspondence - MOntreal" author="">MONTREAL 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

MONTREAL HARBOUR IMPROVEMENTS.



N

o definite information regarding the order in council reported to have been recently issued bas yet been made public. It is understood, however, that plan No. 6 as submitted by the Harbour Commission will not be adopted in all its details, It is stated that a few days before <person>Mr. Page</person>'s death he submitted a supplementary report to Sir Hector suggesting that a commission of five engineers be appointed to consider all the plans submitted and to prepare from them a final plan, embracing any good feature of each. He drew the attention of the Ministers to the danger of flooding Longueuil and St. Lambert's, and hinted that the Government might be held responsible for damages resulting in securing better harbour accommodation for Montreal, It is not known whether these suggestions will be adopted or not, but an answer is daily expected. It is also reported that a French engineer has submitted to the Public Works Department plans for the Montreal harbour improvements, embracing the features of many of the other plans, and providing an addition for a system of Glance piers from the head of St. Helen's Island to Victoria bridge, the removal of half of Isle Rond and the deepening of the south channel below St. Lambert's.

If the commission recommended by the late Mr. Page is appointed, I hope the 'Shearer scheme" will be submitted and fully explained to them, when, I have no doubt, it would receive favorable consideration and give at the same time harbour improvements, wharfage accommodation, prevent floods and Connect the north and south shores of the St. Lawrence, If it were only a question of preventing floods, I think the cheapest and most effective plan would be a system of booms in Lake St. Louis and Lake St. Francis, (which would cause the lakes to freeze over and prevent the ice coming down until the river was open below) and deepening the channel between St. Helen's Island and St. Lambert, thus causing the main body of the river to pass in the south channel in place of the north as at present. If properly carried out this would have the effect of doing away with the St. Mary's current.

STREET WIDENING.

Like most old cities laid out by French engineers, Montreal's streets especially in the business thoroughfares, are far too narrow, and the city council for the past year or two have gone in for extensive widening. Last year St Lawrence Main Street was widened at what was considered a very high cost, but Notre Dame Street, from McGill to Chaboillez Square, which is about to be widened has opened our eyes to what an expensive luxury street widening is. The report of the commissioners on expropriation was filed on Friday. There are some thirty-three property owners and their tenants interested, and the award of the commissioners shows the cost of this comparatively small widening to be between $600,000 and $700000. The improvement is no doubt a desirable one but the question arises is it worth the amount it is going to cost to effect the improvement? Might it not be cheaper to widen both sides of St. Maurice Street, which is a street parallel to Notre Dame, and commencing at McGill Street and terminating at Chaboillez Square? Another and probably more important question is, should not the citizens form some sort of protective society to watch all the expropriation meetings through a first class lawyer, whose duty it would be to see that the proceedings were regular, the evidence revelant and the commissioners awards equitable.

I have before me a detailed report of the commissioners referred to, and on examining it I decided that I would rather be a tenant than a proprietor For instance, one proprietor is to receive $21,719 nominally, but in reality about one-half this amount, as the other half will be levied for street widening, while two of his tenants receive about $10,000 clear for forfeiting their lease Another receives $20,144 nominally, and his tenants $12,600. Another owner gets $14,756 nominally, actually one half of this and one of his tenants $12,135, and another $1,782 Now I hold that if a properly organized contestation of these awards is made, that any Court of Justice would reduce very considerably the lessees' awards. It has been a known fact for some time past that Notre Dame Street was to be Widened, and tenants leasing the stores were fully aware of it at the time Some of the leases went so far as to state that the tenant in the event of the street being widened would have no claim against the owner for damages, and yet the city is bound by the commissioners' awards to pay them heavily It would almost pay the city to have notified the tenants of their intention to widen the street. and await the expiration of their leases. than to pay such heavy damages.

I believe the City Surveyor's estimate for damages was about $180,000

MOUNT ROYAL PARK INCLINE RAILWAY.

The extension of the above railway from the foot of the mountain to Fletcher's Field has been completed, and was yesterday open to the public The station is not yet finished, but the road was yesterday thoroughly tested by upwards of four thousand people who availed themselves of the opportunity to visit Mount Royal Park. Everything worked splendidly, and notwithstanding that the machinery, ropes and track were new, and hardly could be expected to be into gear, everything went off like clock work, It is a great acquisition to the poorer classes the only objection is that it does not go far enough. It should, properly speaking, he continued to the corner of Craig and Bleury streets. The length of the new incline is about 12,000 feet, is drawn by steel cables provided with safety ropes with tension weights at either ends to take up the slack of the rope. The machinery is of the strongest and best type, and has been built in Montreal under the personal supervision of the company's engineers. The grade is one in twelve for the lower portion. About 6oo feet of it is of timber trestle, and the balance through rock excavation The upper elevator is five hundred feet long, and rises some 420 feet in this distance. Both roads have been recently tested at the request of the City Council by the City Surveyor and the engineer of the Dominion Bridge Company, who reported that they found everything in first-class order and perfectly safe. They submitted the road to some severe tests. The road has been built with every possible care under the supervision and specifications of <person>W. McLea Walbank</person>, C. E. and <person>Capt. James Wright</person>, M. E., the former having charge of the civil engineering and the latter the mechanical department.

BUILDING NOTES.

A large residence is In course of construction for <person>Mr. Ross</person>, C. E., late of the Canadian Pacific. I understand the plans were prepared in the first case by a Montreal architect, but for some reason best known to himself Mr. Ross has seen fit to dispense with the services of his Canadian architect, and to employ a Boston architect to make new plans and carry out the work. I cannot understand how it is when Canadians have any money to spend they always avoid local men and prefer to employ alien architects. It is to be hoped " every dog will have his day. The only thing left for the local architects to do will be to see that duty is collected by the Customs for the plans in question



In pile driving, it is said in the University of Michigan Technic to be held by many experienced engineers, both on the Atlantic Coast and on the Mississippi, that for ordinary ground the pile should not be sharpened. They say that the pile if sharpened rarely has its point in the neutral axis, and that the blows of the hammer are not applied so that the action line of the force passes through the point, and hence a couple is introduced tending to strain and weaken the timber. If, on the other hand, the pile is left blunt, the consolidated earth forms a point which, changing with each blow, keeps itself continually in the line of force and hence the straining couple is not introduced. In ordinary practice, however, the pile is tapered somewhat at the lower end, although not sharpened to a point.

