<doctype type="colophon">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	1890.	{ PRICE 20 CENTS

VOL. III.-No. VII.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL CANADA, JULY,	$2.00 PER Year



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.

<building>TEMPLE BUILDING</building>, MONTREAL



SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.



The Publisher of the Canadian Architect and Builder' desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both

the old and new address.





P

UBLIC opinion in the United States is being brought to bear upon the State authorities to prevent the construction in future of buildings more than one-storey in height for hospital and asylum purposes. This idea strongly presented itself to the minds of the people of Canada on the occasion of the recent holacaust at Longue Point.



T

HE City Council of Toronto would do well to act upon the suggestion of the City Engineer to restrict the privilege under which one of the electric light companies has been tearing up the pavement on the principal thoroughfares for the purpose of putting its wires underground. The company are supposed to replace the pavement, but the manner in which this has been done is very unsatisfactory, and must entail heavy expense upon the city for repairs, not to speak of the patched appearance of the roadway. The damage thus far resulting from the company's operations has been comparatively slight, owing to the life of the pavement on the three principal thoroughfares having almost expired. In view, however, of the notice given the City Council of the company's intention to proceed with the laying of wires on a large number of the business streets, steps should at once be taken to protect the public interest. In England, it is said, the wires are laid beneath the flag sidewalks, where they are at all times easily accessible without much inconvenience to the public. What is to prevent the adoption of such a plan

here, by which the destruction of costly roadways might be avoided and the streets kept in proper condition?



W

E have frequently of late been asked to state when the Executive Council and Registrar for the Ontario Association of Architects, provided for by the Ontario Architects' Act, would be appointed. In reply to enquirers <person>Mr. Townsend</person>, Secretary of the Association, desires it to be stated that the Minister of Education in a letter dated the 30th of June, promised that the appointment of the Council would be made as soon as the Executive Council of the Government should meet, which he expected would be within a week. The appointment was not made, however, within this period. A meeting of the Council of the O. A. A. will be held a few days after its appointment for the purpose of appointing a Registrar, and when this has been done, the Secretary of the Association will notify every architect within the province whose name and address he may be able to obtain.



T

HE Civic Health Committee of the city of Hamilton have approved of a by -law providing for the appointment of a Plumbing Inspector, and defining his duties. The Finance Committee, however, has refused to provide the paltry sum of four or five hundred dollars required to pay the official's salary. Consequently, it is presumed, disease will unchecked continue to lay low its victims. This may be taken as a fair sample of the economy practised by city representatives. If some one should propose a junketing trip to the United States for the ostensible purpose of gathering information, but really in order that the aldermen might enjoy an outing at the expense of the taxpayers, it would be safe to assume that four or five hundred dollars or even twice that sum, would readily be forthcoming for the purpose. The refusal of the Finance Committee appears to be little short of criminal, in view of the insignificance of the sum asked for, and the important work which by its means could be accomplished. A city of 50,000 inhabitants cannot afford to do without plumbing inspection. The result of such false notions of economy must be a death rate that will cause the city to be regarded as anything but a desirable place of residence. The citizens who pay the taxes should insist upon the appropriation of the small sum required to secure official oversight of plumbing



T

HERE are three classes of individuals in the ranks of organized labor." First and foremost are the walking delegates or professing leaders, who have seldom been known to exert themselves except to proclaim with loud voice and voluble tongue that they are the representatives of the wage earning classes. Then there are the individuals who are entirely devoid of ambition, content if they can but secure the pittance necessary to keep body and soul together, and never better satisfied than when, having helped to bring about a strike, they may lounge about in idleness, and draw an allowance of five or six dollars a week from the unions. To these two classes must be added a considerable body of intelligent, industrious workmen, desirous of making their way in the world by the

