

<doctype type="text">premises, disconnected at the bottom by a trap made specially for that purpose, and carried by a continuous line of pipes to a safe distance above the roof The branch-piece that attaches the water-closet to the soil-pipe ought to receive our particular attention. for I am sorry to see many plumbers using the iron branch-piece; this branch-piece is too short to receive the outlet of the earthenware trap, which means that a piece of lead pipe has to be inserted into the iron socket and over the outlet of the trap, making two joints in place of one. and one of these joints buried very likely in the wall. This joint being made with putty or red-lead is apt to crack or break; if this happens we have the whole fumes of the soil-pipe escaping into the house, and where the soil-pipe is not disconnected, sewer-gas finds only too ready an entrance,

Let us discourage, as far as we can, the use of iron branch-pipes; the branch-pipe ought to be made of lead, with an arm sufficiently long to reach the earthenware trap. This branch piece is better made of three pieces of lead than soldered on to one perpendicular piece, as is most common, for a reason which I will give later on. The joint between the earthenware trap and lead ought to be fixed by means of a lead flange, bolted on to the flange of the trap, packed with red lead, paint and tow The joints of the soil-pipe, presuming them to be iron, ought to be rusted together, which is made by mixing iron fillings, sal-ammoniac, water, and a pinch of sulphur; the joints are packed with tow, hemp or rope; the rusting is then driven tight into the joints by tools made specially for that purpose. Before the trap is finally placed in position, it ought to be tested as to whether it is a trap, for I remember a large house being fitted up with new sanitary arrangements, and the last state was worse than the first— owing to the water-closet traps being no traps—for when the job was done it was discovered that the water seal in the water-closet traps formed no barrier to the escape of sewer-gas. and new water-closets had to be substituted at the cost of the firm carrying out the work. Various cisterns are used for the various patterns of water-closets, but perhaps the best is the simplest form of syphon system we can get, for the reason that persons very often, when using a water-closet, neglect to hold the handle long enough to ensure a sufficient flush. In making the selection of a cistern, we ought to try and get a ball tap that will allow of the cistern being filled as quickly as possible after it has been used. If we get a slow-filling cistern, the probability is that the next time the water-closet is used, there will only be a partial flush. The cistern ought to be fixed, if possible, directly over the water-closet, so as to allow the full weight and force of water to cleanse the basin and trap; if we cannot get above four feet of a drop from the bottom of the cistern to the basin, a 1 1/2 inch pipe ought to be used, if over four feet, a inch pipe will generally be sufficient. There is a great knack in the way the flush-pipe enters the basin so as to obtain a goad scouring flush. I cannot enter into the various methods employed, or the various shapes the mouth of the pipe is made to ensure such a flush, for their name is "legion," except to say that cork or wood should not be employed, for in time these temporary methods will come out of the place, and the flush perhaps be worse than ever. The putty joint is made as follows: The arm of the basin and the flush-pipe is painted just around the arm: the putty is then laid around the two, over this is carefully wrapped a piece of rag, which has also received a coat of paint, and then to bind the whole together a long piece of string is tied in a peculiar manner known only to the craft. The joint is thus made, and may receive, if thought necessary, a coat of paint, which will tend to bind them all together.

A few remarks on the water-closet branch-piece, and then I have finished. I stated that the branch-piece is better made out of three pieces of lead and soldered together than the branch-pipe soldered on to the perpendicular soil-pipe but even this plan is better than an air-pipe taken from the top of a bend—the first-named plan is the best for several reasons. (1) We get the full bore of the pipe both for the soil and air-pipe. (2) There is no chance of any solder to form a burr or projection into the pipe. (3) The danger of allowing the branch-piece to the socket into the perpendicular pipe too much, or the air-pipe to socket too far into the soil-pipe, is obviated A few of the mistakes that may occur—unless the greatest care is exercised—in the two last-named systems of branching air-pipes on to soil-pipes are The soder in making the joint may run inside and form an obstruction to the soil and paper; the branch-piece may be socketed too far into the perpendicular pipe, and so allow an accumulation of filth to gather; the branch-pipe may get moved from its angle before soldering. and thus cause a bad joint at its upper end. Those of you who know the mode of getting the angle and fixing these pipes will understand what I mean. The soldering of an air-pipe on the top of a bend coming from a water-closet is the worst plan of all. Oftener than not, the top of the bend is only opened out to 2 1/2 or 3 inches diameter, then a 4-inch socket is planted on the top of the opening and soldered, so that really we only have a 2 1/2 or inch air-pipe Again, this socket-pipe may be lowered too far in the bend, thus forming a barrier to the passage of the soil, and if it does not actually cause a stoppage, it allows the accumulation of filth, which is far from desirable.

There are several small items I would like to have pointed out to you in connection with this part of my subject, but I think I have said enough to show you that there are many small details which we would do well to study.



Messrs. R. McDougall & Ca., of Galt, have sent us a handsome lithographed hanger on which is displayed perspective and sectional views of the Plaxton hot Water boiler, of which they are the manufacturers.

Decoration and Furniture

/







<article title="Decoration of Hallways" author="">DECORATION OF HALLWAYS.

N

 OTHING	can be more stiff and unattractive than the old-

fashioned long, narrow hallway, which is a mere passage and needs to be relieved by a few artistic effects. Modern architecture serves to break up the long straight lines, especially in country villages where there is chance to throw the staircase into a niche built for that purpose at one side, or to carry it up by easy stages from the rear of the small reception room into which the hall is thus converted.

Luxurious dwellings, costing many tens if not hundreds of thousands of dollars, are, of course, entered through stately apartments which give dignity and value to the whole structure. It is not of such that we principally treat to-day, but of those modest houses already built in which the majority of well to do

citizens find their homes.

Much ornamentation in such a hall is impossible. The best thing to do where expense is not objected to, is to drop a couple of light Moorish archheads from the ceiling directly over and in

a line with the foot of the staircase. They meet over the newel post and must be constructed of the same wood as that used in the finish of the hall.

Then drop a Mikado bead portiere from the hall arch head, which may be very simply carved—the shape imports more than the finish—permanently fastening it against the wall at the height of the newel post. In front of the fastening and contiguous to it place a small slender circular table, gilded if the hall be not well lighted, sustaining the inevitable and useful card receiver.

A thicker hanging may be used but the effect is then less happy, since the narrow portion of the hall shows as a half seen and dimly lighted vista, giving that appearance of space which is rather increased by the intervention of the portiere.

The treatment of walls and ceiling is entirely a matter of light and location. A house situated on the north side of a city street, and with that handsomest vestibule door of all—one of plain plate glass, beveled and uncolored—will allow a good deal of deep, dark color in the hall. A strawberry red, or a transparent carmine glaze over deep yellow, any color which is glorified by sunshine, may be here admissible. The dado may be rich dark reddish brown or bronze, either stippled or stenciled in geometrical figures or painted lincrusta walton. The ceiling may be cream or a warm gray, with a line of bronze lined without the wall color some six inches from the wall and an inch in width. The mouldings are also bronze with narrow lines of crimson.

This coloring, while very effective, is florid for a quiet taste. Suppose we use chocolate for such, with a canary yellow for the ceiling and dado. The chocolate is light or gray enough to allow stencilings of citrine color in the dado. They must be small in size and archaic, arabic or geometrical in figure, never in the remotest degree copying natural forms. The dado should not be more than eight or ten inches wide, and the figures should be edged or outlined with black. The citrine ought to reappear in the mouldings, and a line of dull orange brown, six inches from the wall, finishes the ceiling.

These old-fashioned stencilings with the painted wall upon which they are super-imposed are always more or less in vogue. This method of decoration, though costing a third more than a good quality of paper, is both durable and quaint, and will never entirely go out of style. Hand-finished work has a certain quality to recommend it which cultivated people are not slow to recognize. Besides, it can easily be kept free from dust and shows no joinings like wall paper.

Upon a wall of light reddish brown, in a dark hallway—one having a northern front, may be stenciled figures in three sizes, ranging from two to five inches in diameter. These may be of the color of cafe au lait. In the frieze reverse the order, using the reddish brown large figure of the stenciling alone upon the ground of the lighter tint. The ceiling ought to be lighter than

