<doctype type="text">	July, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the cone, scarcely more than a pale salmon, a color which gives a pleasant glow to the darkest corner.

Where paper is preferred to paint, it is desirable to use large figured yet unobtrusive designs, such as a canary yellow ground with conventionalized flowers of a slightly deeper tint, or deep crimson upon light, that is, shade upon shade. Two distinct colors in one small room serve to make it smaller still unless they are finely broken and mixed in the Persian style. Even then this kind of paper suits rather a bed room than an entrance way. Sand finished walls are, indeed, very suitable for a hall as well as a dining room. In this case the stenciled frieze should be used, not paper. The cove-color should harmonize with that of the stenciling.

The richest finish of all are hangings of painted tapestry, but these are beyond the reach of moderate purses. In this manner the hallway of <person>Geo. W. Childs</person>, of Philadelphia, has lately been decorated.

It is a lofty room, some twelve feet wide. The door casings, base board and mouldings are made of native and foreign marbles, ranging in tint from black to yellow. From top to bottom the walls are covered with what appears to be Gobelin tapestry, at least to a cursory observer.

Instead of that it is skilfully executed painting on tapestry canvas, the subject a beautiful landscape which climbs the staircase, hillwise. Beyond the foreground of bosky dells and groups of forest trees are vistas of beauty. The whole makes an exceedingly rich, variegated and striking piece of decoration.

In the front of the newel-post of the grand staircase, in this same hall of Mr. Child's, is set in the dial plate of a handsome clock, also of marble like the post and railing. This staircase rises from a side hall at right angles to the main entrance. In it are some noble specimens of cloisonne enamel, which were brought from Japan by General Grant and by him presented to Mr. Childs. One of them, a huge vase, is the largest and finest to be found in this country.

To the top of a newel-post might easily be attached a quaint, large mouthed, low vase, suitable for holding ferns, a small palm or any other decorative plant. It might be changed from time to time, and would always serve to break the straight, stiff lines of the staircase. And if there is a landing, let a piece of rich Japanese embroidery or a Turkish rug be thrown over the balustrade, or hang a bit of rich color on the wall behind.—Decorator and Furnisher.



<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL

An award for distinguished merit has recently been made by Cornell University to Mr. <person>W. N. Gibb</person>, a former Upper Canada College student, for a thesis on "Library Architecture."

Mr. <person>John Page</person>, Chief Engineer of Dominion Canals, died very suddenly shortly after entering his office in the new <building>Departmental Buildings, Ottawa</building>, on the morning of the 2nd of July Disease of the heart is said to have been the cause of his death. The news of the sad occurrence brought a sharp pang of sorrow to the hearts of many acquaintances throughout the Dominion whose high admiration he had won by his kindly disposition and sterling integrity of character Mr. Page was barn in Scotland on 9th August, 1815, and served first under the late <person>Robert Stephenson </person>as engineer of the northern lighthouse board. He came to the United States in 1838 and was engaged on the Erie canal until 1842, when he entered the service of the Canadian Government as resident engineer on the Welland canal. In September of the same year he was appointed resident engineer of the Junction and Williamsburg canals, which position he retained dunng

1850-52.	He then filled the position of superintending engineer of canals below Kingston from 1852 to 1853 In 1863 he declined the deputy ministership of public works. On the 8th March, 1864, he was appointed chief engineer of public works of the provinces of Quebec and Ontario, and on 15th March chief engineer of public works of Canada. The survey for the Wetland canal enlargement was commenced in 1870, and from 1872 to 1873 he was engaged in making reports on the enlargement of the canals from Lake Erie to Montreal. On the 10th December. 1873, he made a report on the proposed Baie Verte canal. On the 16th February, 1880, he presented a special and general report on the canals of the river St. Lawrence. He was chief engineer of canals from 1879 up to the time of his death, and altogether had been 47 years in the service of the Government. He was fourth president of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers. being proposed for the present year. The funeral, which took place from the late residence of the deceased at Brockville, Ont., was attended by many men of prominence within the engineering profession as well as outside of it, It is a pleasure to learn that steps have already been taken to erect a monument to his memory.

Manufactures and Materials 

<article title="Strength of Lead Pipe" author="">STRENTH OF LEAD PIPE

MR. <person>George L. Knox</person>, of the Colwell Lead Company. in writing on the  strength and durability of lead pipe, says

"Lead pipe will sustain quite a heavy pressure if it is applied without shock, but in all practical work, in the plumbing of houses especially, the column of descending water suddenly stopped by the closing of a faucet exerts an increased pressure that will burst pipes which would stand a very much larger weight of still water, If the safe working pressure given in the table referred to were only slightly in error I would not think it necessary to call your attention to them, but my practical experience has shown that the figures there presented are very far from consistent with safe practice. Perhaps the best evidence to present in support of my views are instances that occurred in practical work.

When aerated bread was first made in this city we were asked to furnish a tin-lined lead pipe under two inches in diameter to stand a pressure of 140 pounds to the square inch, the pipe to be used for conveying the carbonic acid gas, which was forced through the dough after it was mixed. We furnished for the purpose AAA pipe, but it would not stand the pressure. We then made for them a heavier pipe, but with no better results. Finally, we made a pipe that was at least three times as strong as AAA pipe, but even this did not stand the 140 pounds pressure. Of course these pipes did not give out at once and the strongest lasted a few weeks, but eventually the lead swelled and burst. The parties for whom we furnished the pipe were finally obliged to use an iron pipe, un-lined, the tin being necessary to prevent the corrosion of the iron by the carbonic acid gas. You will notice that the pressure was only 140 pounds to the square inch, and according to the table you printed the 'safe working pressure' of all the AAA pipes under three inches was considerably in excess of this figure.'



<article title="Good Timber" author="">GOOD TIMBER.

T

HE loud reports that our supply of good timber is fast being exhausted has naturally attracted science in that direction, the diagnose to quality produced in the great timber regions of the south. <person>Professor Rankine</person> says

"There are certain appearances which are characteristic of strong and durable timber to what class soever it belongs

1. In the same species of timber that specimen will in general be the strongest and most durable which has grown the slowest, as shown by the narrowness of the annual rings.

2. The cellular tissue, as seen in the medulary rays (when visible), should be hard and compact.

3. The vascular or fibrous tissues should adhere firmly together, and should show no wooliness at a freshly cut surface, nor should it clog the teeth of the saw with loose fibres.

4, If the wood is colored, darkness of color is in general a sign of strength and durability.

5. The freshly-cut surface of the wood should be firm and shining, and should have somewhat of a translucent appearance A dull chalky appearance is a sign of bad timber.

6. In wood of a given species the heaviest specimens are in general the strongest and most lasting.

7. Among resinous woods, those which have less resin in their pores, and among non-resinous woods, those which have the least sap or gum in them, are in general the strongest and most lasting.

8, It is stated by some authors that in fir-wand that which has the most sap-wood, and in hardwood that which has the least. is the most durable— but the universality of the law is doubtfut. Timber should be free from such blemishes as clefts or cracks radiating from the centre; 'cup-shakes' or cracks which particularly separate one annual layer from the other, V 'upsets,' where the fibres have been crippled by compression, V 'ringalls,' or wounds in a layer of the wood which have been covered and consealed by the growth of the subsequent layers over them.



The sub-committee of the Kingston city council appointed to consider the advisability of the city encouraging the establishing of cement works there, has reported that there is plenty of the material required for cement manufacture available. There is said to be marl at the bottom of every lake in the county of Frontenac the whole of the bottom of Laboro lake. twenty miles long, being composed of it. A specimen of cement of satisfactory quality has been made from this material by Mr. Lenderoth, the promoter of the new enterprise A Committee has been appointed to canvass the city for stock in the proposed works.



Not only are the natural colors of oak and mahogany, including the white variety, very extensively used, hut with the partiality for light wood generally apparent, even a library, as in a recent decorative arrangement by a good architect. may be finished in sycamore free from stain. The method is not claimed as a novelty, considering that for centuries the Japanese and East Indians have done the same. Instead of elaborate molded work, a tendency is shown to have plain panels, rails and stiles, exposing as much as possible the nature of the wood. Whitewood is valued as a material to be finished in enamel, as is done in many rooms.

