



<doctype type="text">attainment of superior skill, and the putting forth of their best efforts. Were it not for the fact that this latter class are outnumbered and outvoted by the other two we should hear much less about strikes and the labor problem. A predominant characteristic of the first class mentioned is to endeavor to secure for themselves an easy living at the expense of the industrious men whose interests they profess to champion. The suggestion during the recent strike in the building trades in Toronto of the necessity of having a representative of "organized labor" stationed in the old country "to look after the interests of workingmen," might doubtless be traced to this source. The names could be mentioned of several self-styled representatives of the labor interests who so manipulated affairs as eventually to drop into comfortable positions in the Knights of Labor, civil service, etc. ___________________





O

UR esteemed contemporary, the American Architect, says "We imagine that some of our readers will be surprised to hear that architects in Canada are 'protected' by a tariff, which places an ad valorem duty on all plans of buildings imported into the Dominion, calculated upon the proposed cost of the buildings represented by the plans. What the rate is we do not know, but the tax is conscientiously collected. The duty is avowedly imposed for the protection of Canadian architects, and those of our own people who are called upon to practice in Canada will do well to look out for it. It is obvious that a duty amounting to a very small percentage on the cost of a building would be a very large percentage on the architects' fees, and architects should be particular to have it clearly understood with clients in the Dominion that 'all duties and expenses of importation of drawings are to be at the cost of the latter."' The existence of an import duty on American plans entering Canada should not be a matter of surprise to American architects, seeing that the American government imposes duty upon the drawings of foreign architects. As to the conscientious manner in which the duty is collected in Canada, it can only be said that if the tariff is to be truly protective, the customs authorities must add to their conscientiousness a keener watchfulness of smugglers. The Canadian exchequer would be richer by many thousands of dollars if a well-known American architect had not succeeded in eluding the vigilance of the customs department. The Government should make a determined effort to convict this smuggler and make of him such an example as shall effectually put a stop to the practice, and make the tariff protective in reality and not in name only.



<person>M

R. Lacroix</person>, Building Inspector for the city of Montreal, appears to be conscientiously striving to fulfil the duties of his position. Those who would evade the provisions of the building by-law find it difficult to escape his vigilance. Not unfrequently by his direction their work has to be pulled down and re-built in compliance with the regulations. Such conduct on the part of an official should give the highest satisfaction to the citizens and the council. Strangely enough, however, some of the aldermen have sought to throw obstacles in his path of duty and destroy his authority, apparently because his official acts sometimes conflict with the interests of their friends. An instance of this kind occurred at a recent meeting of one of the civic committees. A letter was read from a gentleman asking to be allowed to utilize in the construction of some buildings an existing wall which the courts and the committee had previously declared was not built in accordance with law. The applicant stated his opinion that the wall was strong, and he was willing to take the responsibility of using it in his buildings. The Building Inspector said the wall was defective, not having been constructed with good mortar, and produced a letter written by the owner in which he acknowledged that it was not constructed in the manner required by law, In the face of all this evidence, one of the aldermen strongly favored the granting of the application, saying he could see no reason why the permit asked for should be refused, and accordingly moved reconsideration of the committee's former action. The chairman could not find any legal authority for overriding the opinion of the Court and of the Building Inspector. A majority of the members of

the committee displayed their good sense by coinciding in this view. Accordingly the action of the Inspector was very properly sustained.



T

HE attempt is to be made by the City of Toronto to establish technical schools for the benefit of young men who purpose devoting themselves to mechanical pursuits. This step has been taken none too soon. Our young men have for several years been at a disadvantage compared with those of the United States, where a number of very successful institutions of the kind are in operation. The sum of $9,500 is proposed as the initiatory expenditure for the purpose. Three schools containing in all ten rooms, having ten teachers and accommodating 400 pupils, are to be established in different parts of the city. The subjects to be taught are arithmetic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, statics, dynamics, theory of construction, hydraulics, mechanical drawing, chemistry, heat, light, electricity and the elements of sanitary science. A board of directors has been appointed, representative of the Association of Stationary Engineers, the Trades and Labor Council, the manufacturing interest and the City Council, with <person>Prof. Galbraith</person> of the School of Practical Science. It certainly appears strange that no representative of the architectural profession or of the building trades should have been appointed on this board. From no other quarter can a larger proportion of applicants for instruction be expected, therefore a voice in the management should not be withheld. In order that justice may be done to all the interests concerned, and the sympathy and co-operation of all secured, the first opportunity should be taken to make good this omission. In view of the experimental nature of the undertaking, the wisdom of the decision to establish at the outset three schools seems open to question. It might have proved to be a better plan to concentrate the efforts of the management upon one school in the central portion of the city, and there thoroughly test methods of teaching and management, before extending the undertaking. Much depends upon the wisdom exercised in the conduct of this important enterprise at the beginning. Anything like a serious blunder made at the present time would undoubtedly retard the progress of technical education in Canada for many years to come.



C

ONSIDERABLE ill-feeling prevails against the <assoc>Federated Builders' Association of Toronto </assoc>on the part of contractors who have not identified themselves with the organization. It is founded on the allegation that through the influence of the Association the cut stone dealers of the city will not supply stone on equal terms to contractors outside the Association, but give them quotations so much above those supplied to members of the Association, that they are placed at a serious disadvantage in tendering. The intention is said to be to use this method of forcing outside contractors to join the Association. A contrary result seems likely, however, to be brought about. The outside men, associating themselves together, sent an agent to Cleveland to purchase a quantity of stone, and they express the opinion that the terms on which they can obtain it will enable them to compete with members of the association. Some of them ex press their willingness, under other circumstances, to unite with the Association, but refuse to be forced into doing so. They claim that an invitation has never been extended to them to join, and that the Association, even during the recent strike, manifested no desire to strengthen its position by adding to its ranks many reputable outside contractors, but now that the strike has gone against it, adopts the unwise policy of coercion.



It is due to the Association to say that its secretary disclaims any knowledge of a combination to raise prices on outside contractors, and suggests that "it may be that the cut stone dealers don't want to trade with these bosses." Whatever may be the fact, it would be very impolitic on the part of the Association to admit a combine, in view of the penalties imposed by the Anti-Combines Act, and the intention expressed on behalf of the outside contractors to test the value of that Act in connection with the matter under consideration. In view of the fact that the members of the Federated Association are outnumbered

