	<doctype type="text">July, 1890	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	79



Sanitation Heat Light





<article title="Plumbers' work as applied to the duties of sanitary inspectors" author="">PLUMBERS' WORK AS APPLIED TO THE DUTIES OF

SANITARY INSPECTORS.*

WILL endeavor to deal with a few details in which plumbers' work

I

bears directly upon that part of a sanitary inspector's duties where he

has to examine, condemn and refix drains, water-closets, baths, etc. I consider our first and chief duty is the prevention of disease when disease appears, to trace its source, also to remedy the cause (if possible) so that it may not recur again. In this duty we are constantly brought into contact with plumbers work in the shape of waste, soil, rain-water pipes, drains, &c. Although the latter may not be, strictly speaking, the work of the plumber, yet on many large and good jobs the plumber is held responsible, and has the superintending of the laying of the drains; especially is this the case where drains of this kind have to be brought to meet his soil or waste pipes; at any rate, a plumber ought to be able to know what size his pipes will require, and why such size.

Before we proceed any further, I think ought to consider what system of drainage is best, viz., the "trap" or the trapless system." In a very able paper read before this association in September. 1888, a gentleman gave as his opinion that the latter was the perfection, or, to be more correct, the acme of perfection in house drainage. I have my doubts about this matter, for reasons which I will not try to explain. I do not wish or intend to set up my knowledge or experience, which are bath very small, against the knowledge or experience of the reader of that paper, but there were one or two points not dealt with which I think come entirely within the subject of my paper.

In the first place, the "trapless" system is a misnomer, for a trap is used to intercept or disconnect the drains from the sewer; secondly, I think the great objection to it is that there is no check to prevent the disagreeable odors, waste pipes, etc,. from entering the house. Experience seems to show that, be the waste pipes of lead of the best workmanship, laid with the greatest care, all burrs and sharp bends avoided, in fact, a perfect job so far as the making and laying of the pipes are concerned in a few years time, if not before, there will be complaints of disagreeable smells arising from the center or other soap which has congealed to the sides of the bath and lavatory waste pipes, or from the soil which has found a resting place on the sides of the soil pipe. For the first few months all will go well, but by degrees the smooth bore of the pipe—to use a plumbers' phrase—would be eaten into, i. e, the water and air acting alternately on the lead would have a chemical effect, causing the smooth bore to become rough; then, instead of cleansing themselves they would become more and more fouled.

This is what suggested itself to me if the pipes were of lead. But, if the pipes were iron, it seems to me—from what I have read—that they would become foul in a much shorter time. An experiment was made in the roam by the same gentleman to show that sewer air will pass through any number of water barriers; this seems to be a greater reason why the trapless system" should find little favor. I, and I am sure all of us are, open to conviction, and if any gentleman in the room will try and show us, from conviction and otherwise, that the trapless system' is the best, we will use our poor influence to bring about this acme of perfection. With regard to the trap system, I think the old fallacy that because a pipe is trapped, therefore there can be no danger, is fast dying. else why disconnect soil-pipes and waste-pipes at the foot. We claim for traps that they can keep out any sewer-gas that may escape, and certainly they keep out any disagreeable odors of soap and soil that may lodge in the pipes. If the soil and waste-pipes are well and properly ventilated, there can be no danger of a pressure upon the traps, and if the traps are regularly flushed out, there can be no danger of the water in them becoming foul. No doubt there is much to be said for and against both systems, but on these I do not intend to enter it is too large a subject for a paper like this is intended to be.

Having thus briefly touched upon the trap and trapless systems, it devolves upon me to say something about traps in general. Trap-making is one of the great arts in connection with the plumbers handicraft. In many large shops they keep what are called bench hands," who are engaged upon nothing else but the making of traps, bends. etc. Traps and trapmaking is a part of plumbers' work which has a direct bearing upon a portion of our duties for how often are we called upon to examine the traps of a house where typhoid or diphtheria has made its appearance. Perhaps, in the whole history of sanitary matters, no article can be found which has more perplexed the British housebolder than the article known as a trap. Each inventor, vendor and fitter-up has lauded some such contrivance. The essentials of a good trap are, that it should be self-cleansing; that the water should be changed every time of using; that it should be free from any working parts likely to get out of order or become fouled that it should hold enough water to prevent the escape of any noxious vapors, and not too much surface exposed to the air. For ordinary purposes the lead S or P trap, properly made, fulfils all the above conditions. No doubt this

Read before the members of the <assoc>Association of Public Sanitary Inspectors of Great Britain </assoc>by <person>A. E. Adams </person>R. P.C., Asso. San. Ins.

is the reason why patents of various other sorts find so little favor. There has been put into the market cast and drawn lead pipes of the shapes mentioned, but it has been found that they will not last as long as the handmade trap. For some reason or other, they collapse completely. Then there are other makes of lead traps in the market. e. g., the old D trap, which we rightly condemn for reasons upon which I need not dilate; and yet the old D trap has its good quality, which is such a good one that it has been produced in a new form, and finds much favor in the south, I mean the geometrically formed trap." It is almost the same shape as the old D trap, but so constructed that it conforms to the requirements of a good trap. The good quality of the D trap is that it is not so easily syphoned as the pipe trap; this, when a number of water-closets or sinks are fixed on a length of pipe, is a great consideration. This syphonage can be obviated to a great degree by fixing a number of relief (or ventilating) pipes, but in every case the fixing of these is an impossibility. I need not enter into the merits or demerits of the different kinds and makes of traps. We are all familiar with Buchan's, Bowers' &c. Our duty lies not in the making of the traps, but in the fixing. I do not for a moment wish to imply that we ought not to know the advantages and the disadvantages of the various makes of traps, for it ought to form part of our duty to acquaint ourselves with all the different forms and makes. With regard to the fixing of traps (for the present I exclude the water-closet traps), the trap ought to be fixed perfectly level, or on such a slope that the water seal is not too much diminished or done away with altogether. It ought to be fixed as near the bath or sink as can be. Sometimes we get complaints of unpleasant smells from the fact that the trap has been fixed too far away—perhaps two or three feet away—from the inlet, leaving this length of fouled pipe to cause the smell complained of. This happens most often when a "running, horizontal or U' shaped trap has to be fixed. For the convenience of making the joints, the plumber will leave two or three feet more pipe than he has need to do. This kind of trap is rarely used when a P or S trap can be fixed.

I think it will be obvious to us that a trap is better if made in one piece, but as they take a longer time in making, they are more expensive; consequently we generally find traps made in two pieces and soldered together. The great art in trap-making is to get the lead equal in every part; there is a tendency for the lead to get thin at the edges and thick at the center. If a trap is fixed in this state, the hot water will cause it to expand, the cold water to contract. and the trap will give in the weakest or thinnest place, viz., the seams. No doubt we have seen traps that have given way in this manner. Another reason for traps giving way at the seams is the galvanic action set up by the two metals used in the solder, and the water and air acting upon them alternately so that when we are examining lead traps we ought to carefully examine the seams, for although the defect may only be enough to allow a drop of water to escape every minute, yet that drop will cause the trap to become unsealed.

Now, a few words on water-closets and the fixing of them, for it is in this part of our duty that we need a good knowledge of plumbers' work. The first thing we require to know in the alteration or carrying out a system of the disposal of fecal matter by the water carriage system, is what kind of a water-closet apparatus we are going to fix. There are such a number of

perfect sanitary closets" that the difficulty is to pick out the most perfect. The valve water-closet finds great favor with some of the leading sanitarians of the day; there is no doubt it possesses advantages over many of the water-closets now put into the market, but there are several drawbacks to its general use, i. e., it is too expensive for common use; there are too many working parts about it, and it is not so cleanly as the earthenware therefore, I think we can divide water-closets into two divisions, viz., the washout (manufactured in one piece) and the hopper and trap. Personally, I have great objection to the wash-out. It offers, to my mind, several objections; first and foremost, it is not as clean as it might be. I have taken particular notice of several that have been fixed, and I find that the back part of the outlet of the basin is oftener than not covered with filth. Several have told me that this is due to inefficient flush, but to my mind it is due, not to the inefficient flush, because I have noticed that it is not only in the back and side of the flush wash-out, but in those with a flushing rim where the water drops direct on the part complained of, but it is due to the water not being able to scour the back part of the trap. Another drawback is that if it is used as a urinal, as a water-closet ought to be used—for urinals are objectionable in private houses—the urine trickles over the basin and causes not merely the staining of the basin, but in time an objectionable odor; this will be especially noticeable if the closet is used by a number of females. Again, if the water-closet happens to become choked, the whole apparatus has to be taken out to unstop it, and I can tell you from experience that it is anything but a pleasant job, In the hopper and trap none of these objections offer themselves, provided we get a good form of basin with a good scouring flush; the best I have seen in the market was a pattern made by Dodd (late of Cable street). The hopper and trap can be used as a urinal if fitted with an earthenware top, without any fear of objectionable odors arising therefrom, for it can be scrubbed every day with a brush, and each and every part can be so cleansed if the seat is hinged so as to allow of it being raised for this purpose. I assisted to fix this form of water-closet in the <building>Hospital for Women</building>, Shaw street, and they gave the greatest satisfaction. Now, as to the mode of fixing water-closets in general, the soil-pipe is the first to be fixed; this ought to be fixed outside the

