	<doctype type="text">76	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	July, 1890



be enough first-rate men who would, under the circumstances, glory in showing their independence by keeping out of the corporation, while a large number of the small fry would rush in and become "registered architects" for the supposed prestige it would give them. With the best men out and the small men in how much weight would the title, "registered architect," carry with it ?—Northwestern Architect.



<article title="an English Opinion upon the Ontario Architects' Act" author="">AN ENGLISH OPINION UPON THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT.

A

 PARLIAMENT has made the Ontario Association a body corporate, and passed "The Ontario Architects Act," whereby from and after the 1st prox. "no person [within the Province of Ontario] shall be entitled to take or use the name or title of "Registered Architect," either alone or in combination with any word or words, or any name, title, or description, implying that he is registered under this Act, unless he be so registered "—under penalty of a fine; and whereby "every registered architect summoned to attend any court, civil or criminal, for the purpose of giving evidence in his professional capacity or in consequence of professional services rendered by him as an architect," is to be paid per day, in addition to his travelling expenses (if any) "the same fee or allowance as is payable to provincial land surveyors" attending such court. The act provides that every person registered thereunder shall become, ipso facto, a member of the association, and gives a council of nine members thereto, to be appointed in the first instance by the Lieutenant-Governor of the Province, and subsequently by ballot, as by-laws may ultimately decide—the first nine members to be British subjects residing and practising the profession of architecture within the province for at least ten years before the passing of the act. The council are given authority to appoint examiners for the purpose of ascertaining and reporting the qualification of all persons who shall present themselves "for admission and enrolment as students at any of the matriculation, preliminary, intermediate, or final examinations ;" and also to make by-laws respecting the "admission and registration of students, the periods and conditions of study, and the enrolment of architects as members of the association, and all matters relating to the discipline and honour of the profession." Sections 5-10, relating to the constitution and appointment of the council, and sections 21-24, which lay down definite rules respecting the qualifications of students desirous to register, are undoubtedly valuable and important, because they open a way for the association to permanently influence the welfare of young men starting in life as architects within The Province of Ontario, The act is printed at page 368 of this number of The R. 1. B. A. Journal, and it also appears in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER of April—a newly founded journal (now in its third volume)—which thinks that the Act, though in a great measure disappointing to the association, "should be considered as one step forward in the direction of securing for the architectural profession the recognition and respect which is its due, inasmuch as it enables the public to distinguish between the qualified and unqualified practitioners." But does it? And will an architect who carries to Ontario the certificate of Fellow or Associate of the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects </assoc>be distinguished by the inhabitants of that province as "unqualified" if he fails to register under the Ontario Architects' Act? Such a consummation is hardly to be wished, and the Council of the Ontario Association will probably not be long in finding it out. In one particular, however, they will be regarded by the architectural profession with curiosity ; they are "the first by whom the new is tried." For though, during three centuries, the world has known that there are always architects and architects, a British Legislative Assembly has decided that, within at least the confines of the Province of Ontario, there shall be architects and "registered architects."—R. I. B. A. Journal.



The Supreme court of New Jersey held that where one builds a party wall under a city ordinance authorizing and regulating city walls, he cannot claim the benefit of such ordinance unless the wall is of the thickness required by the ordinance, and otherwise conforms to it, and is without openings.

<article title="the new Toronto Building By-Law" author="">THE NEW TORONTO BUILDING BY-LAW.

I

 T is the intention of the Toronto City Council to put into force at no very distant date a new or rather revised by-law "for regulating the erection of buildings and the storage of inflammable material." By-law No. 627 is to make way for by-law No. 2468.

Unfortunately this new by-law is not much nearer perfection than its predecessor. Its framers have apparently not availed themselves of the assistance they might have had of men well versed in building matters, engaged in connection with building operations for many years, and whose opinion would certainly, one would have thought, have been only too readily listened to by those who had such a by-law to draw up.

But what is the use of such a by-law when there is no one to see that it is carried out? The City Commissioner is the appointed "Inspector of Buildings" for the purposes of the by-law, but his multifarious duties entirely prevent his giving his attention to plans or to supervision of buildings in course of construction, and much less time has he for looking after defective flues and drains and so on in existing structures, so that unless one of these things has become already a general public nuisance or many have died through breathing sewer gas, is it possible for him to take cognizance of it.

The new by-law gives him power to notify the owner direct, instead of having, as heretofore, to notify the Mayor or a Magistrate who in turn shall notify the owner. This no doubt saves time and avoids some amount of red tape, but how does the Commissioner happen to hear of any defective flue or drain or tumbling wall, when his own time is taken up looking after dirty lanes, the protection of shade trees and grass, and so on?

We have repeatedly urged the necessity of having an Inspector whose duties shall consist in looking after plans and the works being carried out, and hunting up defects in new and old structures, and the by-law expressly states that a" practical mechanic" shall be appointed to the post, but that for the present the Commissioner shall take upon himself an inspector's duties. A practical mechanic might possibly be better than the Commissioner, but do not let it be forgotten that there are practical mechanics and practical mechanics, and we very much doubt if the right kind of man for Inspector would be found among this kind of men.

We have not space to criticize the new by-law as we would like to do, but a few of the most glaring defects, in the failure to enforce a good clause when it exists, should be commented upon.

Who looks after our churches and theatres, and takes the trouble to notice whether the hose and apparatus for quelling an outbreak of fire is in good order before the play is commenced? Or who sees that the seats and doorways, corridors and doors, are arranged so as to admit of the most rapid exit of all the occupants of any public building? Clause No. 34 says that there shall be no filling up of aisles or passageways with seats, chairs or drawseats—that obstructions to egress shall not be permitted. This is certainly a good point, but who is to see it carried out? Has our Commissioner ascertained to his satisfaction that our theatres are safe, that they can be emptied of the largest audience in two minutes, that there is no undue risk of fire behind the scenes? When statistics show us that when a fire breaks out in a theatre there is only a space of time, on the average of five minutes between the alarm and total extinction of life within the building, surely there should be no trifling about this particular.

Brick veneered buildings are still to be allowed within the limits of the city, provided they have stone foundations. Suppose fire breaks out from one cause or another in the frame building before the brick veneer has been added, what will be the result? total destruction of that particular building (which would be a good thing), and the probable destruction of a great deal of valuable property adjoining. One would have thought the terrible conflagrations in frame towns would have taught our council that there was folly here, if nothing else.

It is intended to extend the fire limits to the limits of the city

—no doubt a good idea if the rest of the fire by-law was of any use, but they may as well fix by law the actual limits that a conflagration shall reach, as pretend to do any good with such poor and ill conceived clauses respecting protection from fire.

