<doctype type="text;ad">August, 1890	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	93



cal studies, and to classify with order the invaluable jewels which are contained in the traditional treasure-house of architecture.

The five per cent., my practical friend, is alluring and necessary. I acknowledge it. I even find that its defect is its being often insufficient remuneration for the work performed. But ought we to stop on that account? Do you disdain all progress in art? Are you indifferent to public opinion and, consequently, to what is recognized as grand in architecture, and true merit in architects? Assuredly not. Let us then together all demand the organization of the higher studies in order that the architectural traditions shall be better understood, and the instruction be improved so that work shall be made easier for the practising architect. Also in order that the public may be as earnestly taught the moral and intellectual importance of architecture as well as its practical utility, so that they may appreciate at least the numerous points which a good architect should possess.

By this means, the country, our profession and art, would have everything to gain, while those who devote themselves to the higher studies, assisted but not bound down in their efforts by an intelligent government, would indeed deserve much from us all, since they consecrate themselves the difficult task of being the pioneers of architectural progress.

The question of the higher studies has turned us a little from that which at the beginning of this article we wished to examine. and it is time to classify our conclusions as to architectural tradition, as follows

1.	To study the prehistoric architecture as the period of the embryo, which is destined later to develop into the regular style.

2.	To study at first separately the special evolution of each style, by showing clearly the action of the three factors which have contributed to its creation, its development and its decadence. The relations of each style to the civilization which produced it will then be established, and then would be shown its connection with the social, religious and artistic doctrines, also with the government. Also the scientific and industrial knowledge of the country and its products, as well as the climate and race under whose influence the style was evolved, will be then indicated.

3.	To study afterward all the styles in their historic continuity through the different ages, and in the order of their logical classification, comparing them with each other. To study them with relation to the countries and races until the history of the race is sufficiently well known. To then cause to pass before the eye as completely and faithfully as the science permits, and in a continuous panorama, the evolution of the "humanity architect" from its origin to the present day.

4.	Finally, to note the tendencies of progress, which are plainly marked in contemporaneous society, and explain them in the light of these tendencies upon architectural progress. It is thus that upon the majestic pedestal raised by the ancient civilization will be gradually constructed the figure of the new architecture, the symbolic expression of the modern world.

ln the future we may examine the two other factors in architecture, i. e., that of science and that of art.—J. Caesar Daly in La Semaine des Constructeurs.





It is said to be the intention of Messrs. <firm>James Stewart & Co</firm>., of Hamilton, to engage in the manufacture of soil pipe.

Messrs. <person>Joseph Lea</person>, <person>Joseph Mickleborough </person>and <person>J. J. Blackmore </person>are the projectors of a new company which is about to commence the manufacture of water pipe at St Thomas. Ont

We regret to make the statement that Messrs. <firm>M. Staunton & Co., </firm>wall paper manufacturers, of Toronto, have been compelled by dullness of trade and keeness of American competition to make an assignment. The creditors have agreed to a compromise of 50 cents on the dollar.

<person>Mr. Hansen</person>, the patentee of the chimney topping advertised in this journal, in sending out circulars recently to Canadian architects and builders, gave the name of the Canadian manufacturers as being "The St. Johns Drain Pipe Co ." instead of " <firm>The Standard Drain Pipe Co</firm>.," of St. Johns, Que. Our readers when opening correspondence with the company, will please note the correct address.

<article title="Manufactures and Materials A Sensible Fashion " author="">Manufactures and Materials A SENSIBLE FASHION.

THE St. Louis Lumberman remarks that for some years back it has  been a frequent thing to hear people talk about the "craze" for oak. The large use of it was set down as due merely to a passing fashion, and as having no more solid and enduring foundation than the caprice of the public. It was said to be only a "fad, which the next new moon would in all probability bring to an end There can be little question that through this characterization of the popular taste for oak the impression got abroad that the demand could not be relied upon from one season to another, and that it was not a safe basis upon which to make large calculations respecting the future of the business. Latterly the notion has begun 0 give place to a conviction that the fancy for oak is not a fad nor a craze, but one of the necessary results of the improvement in the popular taste. The beauty of natural wood for all finishing and ornamental purposes has come to be appreciated, and this appreciation gives assurance that oak will be a leading favorite so long as wood is esteemed of value for its beauty of colour and grain. The course of the development of the artistic sense cannot be backward it may make slow progress, and fly on many a discouraging and inexplicable tangent, but withal it still moves on and the process of time shows that same things are gained never to be lost. We believe it is safe to say that a hearty liking for oak is one of these It is so sensible a taste, and so good a one that it cannot degenerate again into the barbarism of white and mottled colored paints as a substitute for the unequalled variety of figure that natural oak affords. While a taste for beautiful wood endures, oak cannot but stand at the head of native timbers. There is none surely that surpasses it in richness of colour, fineness of grain or susceptibility to the most delicate treatment of the finisher. It fills every requirement of a finishing or cabinet wood. It is beautiful, and the most durable of any available material for such purposes Strong as the strongest and hard as the hardest, its comparative abundance and cheapness opens for it a field that reaches from the cheapest of factory-made furniture to the finest cabinet work and finish that can be fashioned by human hands Will this not insure for it a certain market in the future and a large one too



Messrs. <firm>Young & Bro</firm>., iron pipe manufacturers of Hamilton, Ont., are considering the advisability of establishing a branch factory at Brampton, Ont The town offers them a bonus of $12,000.











<firm>Fortress Hotel Co., (LIMITED)



</firm>

QUEBEC.

Tenders will be received up to



15th of SEPTEMBER NEXT,



for plans and specifications for a



NEW HOTEL AT QUEBEC.

Parties wishing to compete will require to visit the ground owing to its exceptional position. A prize of $1,000 is offered for the best plan. Further information can be had from the Secretary.



<person>R.R. DOBELL</person>,

<person>J.	R. H. WHITE</person>,	President.

	Secretary.



THE CROMPTON SYSTEM

— OF —







INCANDESCENT AND ARC ELECTRIC LIGHTING, OF ENGLAND.

This system is acknowledged by all the impartial experts to be the best in the world. For isolated

Plants or Central Stations there are none superior. Cost is very low.

General Agents in Canada:

<firm>THE KEEGANS-MILNE CO</firm>.,	- -	MONTREAL.

	INTERIOR WIRING A SPECIALTY.	WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.