

<doctype type="text"> <article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



T HE <assoc>Canadian Society of Civil Engineers </assoc>have moved into their new rooms situated in the Bank of Montreal's western branch building. at

the corner of St. Catharine and Mansfield streets. The large room will be used as a library and general meeting room of the society, while the smaller room facing St. Catharine street will be the Secretary's office, where the council will meet.

<building>BOARD OF TRADE BUILDING Montreal</building>.

The Board of Trade of the city of Montreal having acquired a site accept able to all, have now under consideration the advisability of having their plans prepared. The president and secretary have recently made a tour through the States examining the various Boards of Trade buildings and have returned to the city fully convinced that no Canadian architect will be found fit to erect their building. They have interviewed several American architects who have promised to submit plans. It is rather rough on Can- adian architects to see the president and secretary of an influential body scouring American towns and interviewing American architects regarding plans for a comparatively insignificant building. Surely the Dominion of Canada—if not the city of Montreal—contains architects well qualified to erect a building equal if not superior to any produced by American architects. especially if they are not handicapped by lack of money and other considerations. I suppose the Board of Trade would hardly consider it fashionable to employ purely local architects while other large corporations

<article title="warping of wood" author="">WARPING OF WOOD.



AS lumber is now sawn, every board but one will warp and curl up in  the process of seasoning. The reason for this is plain, If the board be 'sawn from the side of a log. the grain rings of the wood lie in circles. which have a greater length on one than upon the other side of the board. A board cut from the very centre of the log has grain circles of equal length upon each side, and will lie perfectly fiat when seasoned.

When selecting the lumber for a tool-chest or some other fine job, pick Out boards which show that they came, as near as possible, from the centre of the log. A method is in use which compensates for this tendency to curl in seasoning. This is known as quarter sawing, and quartered oak, of which so much is said at present, is sawn by this process.

It consists in cutting out boards radially from the centre to the outside of the log. Suppose a log to be split into four pieces, each of these pieces is sawn diagonally so that the grain rings run through, instead of the circles running into, part way through and out upon the same side of the board.

Quarter sawn lumber will not warp in drying, neither will it yield so readily to changes of weather. It has the disadvantage of being more expensive. as in sawing each quarter a narrow board is first taken off, then one a little wider. The boards increase in width until the middle of the quarter is reached, making the widest board equal to half the diameter of the tree. The narrow boards may be glued up into wide strips, but that shows considerable sap, and they cannot be used in some kinds of work.

To prove that the circles of sap rings cause curling during the seasoning





















































import theirs from the States.

The Board of Trade have now an opportunity of showing a patriotic spirit by opening their competition for their new building to Canadian architects only following the example set them by the Sun Life Insurance Company. This would give our architects some stimulus to enter into the competition. I will have more to say on this subject as matters develop.

<assoc>QUEBEC ARCHITECTS' ASSOCIATION</assoc>.



Articles and by-laws have been drafted by the committee of organization to submit to the general meeting to be held early in September. Copies have been forwarded to the local association of architects of Quebec for acceptance.

ANOTHER SPECIMEN OF "ARCHITECTURAL COMPETITIONS."



Montreal architects are expressing their indignation at what they regard as the "cheek" displayed by the President and Secretary of the Fortress Hotel Co., of Quebec, in addressing to them a circular which reads as follows: "Tenders will be received up to 15th of September next, for plans and specifications for a new hotel at Quebec. Parties wishing to compete will require to visit the ground owing to its exceptional position. A prize of $1,000 is offered for the best plan. Further information can be had from the Secretary. A reply, stating whether you intend to compete or not, will greatly oblige.

"CONDITIONS—1st.—Total cost (hearing, plumbing and lighting included) not to exceed $175,000: 2nd— To contain at least 200 bed-rooms; 3rd.— The majority of the Directors will decide which plan is entitled to the $1,000."

The Fortress Hotel Co. have much to learn about the conditions which should govern architectural competitions and the cost of building construction. Let silence be the universal response to the above circular.

process, it is only necessary to take such curled boards and wet the concave side, or apply heat to the convex side. If each or both be done, the boards will straighten Out forthwith. This method is often taken advantage of by carpenters, in working twisted or warped boards. The seasoning process is also controlled by frequently turning boards over so that each side may receive just enough heat and air to keep the boards fiat.— Woodworker.





<article title="personal" author="">PERSONAL.

Mr<person>. W. R. Gregg</person>, a highly esteemed member of the architectural profession in Toronto, was united in marriage a few days ago to <person>Miss Grace Angus</person>, of Montreal, and will spend the honeymoon in Europe.





The City Engineer of Toronto has taken upon himself the responsibility of appointing a third plumbing inspector, If the three inspectors conscientiously strive to fulfil their duties, they are not likely to find themselves with much idle time on their hands.

Mr. <person>J. C. Merriwater</person>, of Greenwich, England, proposes a Combination of lead with paving materials to prevent slipping. One plan is to place lead plugs or strips at or in the joints of paving blocks ; preferably at the intersection of cross and longitudinal joints, and another is to use the same device in coalhole or manhole covers, the theory being that "lead is sluggish and bites."

