<doctype type="colophon">VOL. 111.—No. VIII.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, CANADA, AUGUST, 1890.	PRICE 20 CENTS

		$2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN Contract RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,



DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND Manu

FACTURERS OF' AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	TORONTO, CANADA.

TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL.





SUBSCRIPTIONS 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2,00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper.



The publisher of the The Canadian Architect and Builder" desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery o] this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



W

E published a description some time ago of the alarming landslide at Quebec, and some doubt was expressed at the time as to with whom the responsibility should rest. The Dominion Government has given permission to claimants of damages to sue it for the amounts claimed, and no doubt some interesting actions will soon be fought out.





T

HE statement is made that the Provincial Natural Gas Company will not pipe St. Catharines before next spring, owing to the impossibility of securing pipe from the American factories, which are said to be crowded with orders. It would be interesting to know why this pipe is not being manufactured in Canada. Are Canadian manufactories unequal to its production, or have they also more work than they can do? Or, is the duty inadequate to afford the Canadian manufacturer a fair protection against the older and larger American factories? Whatever may be the cause, we hope to see this kind of work done at home in the future.



<person>M

R. Justice Proudfoot</person>, in a case which came before the Toronto Courts recently, held that a mechanics' lien could not stand against a building belonging to a municipality. It would be a good thing for owners and reputable contractors if the Mechanics' Lien Act was removed from the statute book.

The only persons who might have cause to complain would be the men who set up as contractors without money, and frequently with as little experience, relying upon the competition between the dealers in building materials to enable them to obtain the necessary credit. The loss of such men from the ranks of the builders would be a decided benefit rather than a calamity.



T

HE tyranny exercised by "organized labor" was well exemplified at Ottawa the other day. The despatch states that a certain contractor of that city agreed, at the dictation of the bricklayers' union, to dismiss the tuck pointers or foundation men he had employed on a certain building contract, but found that his agreement with the men precluded his dismissing them. Then the union called off all the bricklayers, and the contractor was unable to proceed with his contract. Finally, on paying a fine of $io, he was allowed to have the men back again. Such a method of extorting money would be worthy of the greatest brigand. At the same time, the contractor who meekly agrees to dismiss his employees who have been guilty of no offence at the dictation of the trades unions, is deserving of little sympathy.



A

 TORONTO property-owner awoke from sleep recently to find that the side of his house had fallen out as the result of an excavation on a neighbor's property having been carried too near to his foundation. He declares that but for the support afforded by an inside wall recently built in the cellar in connection with the furnace, the whole building must have gone down, burying him and his family in the ruins. The wall of a school building in course of erection collapsed a few weeks ago from the same cause. The gross stupidity and carelessness of some workmen is illustrated by the fact that an architect not long since discovered that a pier in the foundation of one of his buildings had been undermined by a drain having been cut beneath it. The building inspector might show that he is a living entity by making an example of persons guilty of such criminal carelessness.



T

HE terrible accidents that every now and then occur by the insecurity of platforms erected for sightseers, have been capped by one of the most horrible ever recorded, although in this case the platform was intended as a permanent structure, and gave way for want of that careful time to time inspection, the neglect of which should be made criminal. We refer to the collapse of the landing stage at Halifax, which upon the arrival of a ferry steamer was crowded with intending passengers, who moving to one side, caused the platform to tip up and the whole crowd of men, women and children to slide off into the water in a mass, the hinder most on top of the foremost. Such an occurrence ought to be a warning to the owners of all such platforms, and it behooves them to see that they are substantially built in the first place and well looked to afterwards, but unfortunately the element of cost comes in too often and the work is carried out without proper plans, without even the supervision of an engineer or architect, the owners trusting to the mechanic who puts in the lowest figure and intends to save as much as he can out of it for his own pocket.

