	August, 1890	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND	91



<doctype type="text">Decoration and Furniture<article title="The Artistic in electrical work" author="">THE ARTISTIC IN ELECTRICAL WORK.

E LECTRICITY, says Kuhiow's German Trade Review,  has been the means of creating a variety of new and beautiful illuminating bodies. A completely new ornamental principle has been brought into application. The ductile conducting wire can be turned and wound in all directions, so that the most fantastic formations are possible. Thus, there may be fitted in the corners and centres of ceilings, garlands and floral ornaments in colored bronze or in gilded and painted stucco, from the open flowers of which streams the electric light, or to such garlands colored glass lamps to contain the lights are added, by which the effect of colored precious stones is produced. The light hangs down in glowing clusters, or swings from the walls in festoons of flowers, or glitters in the hands of charming bronze boys, or like a galaxy of stars it hovers above that magnificent life-size female form, cast in bronze, from Eberlein's model. Free and unrestricted can the light be disposed of. Small wonder that the naturalistic creations receive the preference The things at present created in such illuminating bodies are really magnificent. Here, a wall bracket 'n the form of a pineapple, on the crown of which are the lamps, like stamens with glittering nodes. There, a lamp of colored majolica with the rays of light glimmering with fairy-like beauty between colored metallic leaves and entwining plants. Countless is the variety, each more beautiful than the other. All the large establishments for illuminating articles hold similar charming work in stock. In numerous places of public assembly in the city many have already come into application. The impression created is of such an enchanting character, that it may with justice be claimed that in this wonder of loveliness the marvels depicted in the "Thousand and One Nights" seem again to be realized. In this beautiful work there is a hint for our artistic trades: new ornamental creations are not originated by the everlasting imitation of the ornamental forms of past periods of style1 but by inventive skill and new necessities.



<article title="Art Education" author="Laughlin, Ada M.">"ART EDUCATION."

A

 LL children should be taught enough drawing to be able to express themselves readily with the pencil. Not with the purpose of making artists of them, but because such power is an enrichment of ordinary daily life. This study awakens an appreciation for beauty and truth and leads to higher ideals in conduct and workmanship. There is a yearning toward beauty in form and color as well as in sound and morals, and it is to this upward tendency of the mind that the wise educator will address himself. The higher our conception of material beauty, the higher will be our conception of moral beauty.

We, as a nation of peace, maintaining the smallest standing army in the world, in our public education are doing nothing compared with Europe to advance and ennoble peaceful occupations. What is being done by America toward fitting the people for adjustment of their relations to peaceful labor is being done wholly by private enterprise. Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, whose varied work is illustrated so beautifully in our city to-day, is maintained wholly by private enterprise and is training 1,500 young people to self-reliance and skill, the expense of them being merely nominal. Mr. <person>Philip Armour</person>, of Chicago, has in view the establishing of a similar enterprise in his own city.

"With the diminution of the hours of labor for the workingman rises the demand as to how he shall spend his time. Because more leisure is coming to people we must create, foster and nourish the desire for pure and elevating amusements, and this fostering of correct tastes must be begun in childhood and cared for under the state and civil authorities. Few studies can claim to do as much as music and drawing toward advancing children in paths of peace, obedience, and order, giving them



 Extract from paper, by <person>Ada M. Laughlin</person>, Brooklyn, N. Y., read before the National Convention of Teachers, St. Paul, Minn.

present happiness, future occupation and a constantly elevated enjoyment.

America must not judge herself nor her arts by standards of Greece and Rome, for the conditions of life now are vastly changed and much improved. We can not do, even if it were a thousand times better worth doing, anything well, except what our American hearts shall prompt and our American skies teach us, for all good workmanship is the natural utterance of its own people in its own day. The art life which is the result of this new industrial activity will come from the sure and gradual elevation that is the necessary outgrowth of universal purity of thought and action. Inspired by the purpose to educate and thus redeem the masses, to awaken and stimulate an appreciation of nature as the externalization of God's thought—dominated by the Christian idea—the leavening of the entire lump, the nation's aim shall be, not the development of intellect for intellect's sake, nor science for science's sake, nor art for art's sake, but everything for humanity's sake—to make humanity godlike.









Sanitation Heat Light

<article title="In what relation should the intelligent trustworthy plumber stand toward his client in the selection of sanitary appliances" author="Mandable, Matthew L.">IN	WHAT RELATION SHOULD THE INTELLIGENT, TRUSTWORTHY PLUMBER STAND TOWARD HIS CLIENT IN

THE SELECTION OF SANITARY APPLIANCES?

I

T was with considerable hesitancy that I accepted the position assigned me by the chairman of the Sanitary Committee, <person>Mr. Wade</person>, as one of his colleagues, to assist in the work of the committee for 1890, for the advancement of ideas for the best interests of those in the trade. I felt that I was incapable of doing justice to the position, and that older members could accomplish the work with greater satisfaction to the association. The work allotted me requires years of experience as a master plumber; however, I believe that it is incumbent upon every one to do his share of committee work, and if he does not intend to do it, he should not accept the honor. Committee work is a feature of all organizations which is worthy of more attention than it receives, especially in our own, as its prosperity depends upon the activity of the members and the care and attention they give to the performance of the tasks required from them.

The subject assigned me for this evening is "In What Relation Should the Intelligent, Trustworthy Plumber Stand Toward His Client in the Selection of Sanitary Appliances ?"

The plumber of to-day should stand in the same relation with his client as the family doctor does with his patient, as an adviser. He should first inquire, when consulted about undertaking the plumbing of a house, what kind of a structure his client is going to erect, about the amount of money he proposes to expend in building a home for himself and family. After the information has thus been obtained, it is the duty of the plumber to advise his client of what he considers best for him to do, and which he thinks best for him to use in the line of sanitary appliances. This may prove a very difficult task, and it requires considerable experience. The plumber of to-day is not what he was twenty years ago. His surroundings are changed, and the trade has changed. At that time they all had the same ideas as to which was the best closet; now they have at least fifty or more to select from, and they all seem to do the work for which they are intended. Therefore, I think the plumber should use great care in advising what goods to select. He should not let his prejudice against any firm, which for some reason or other may have fastened itself in his mind, enter into the transaction at all. He should by all means advise his client to buy the best that money can get, as it is the cheapest by far in the end.

And now I come to a feature of the business which some of you may be inclined to slight, and think of no real value to the business. Every master plumber should have his own showroom, with a complete line of his favorite fixtures set up all complete and under water, so that he will be able to show his client the advantages claimed for the various designs to be correct.

Paper prepared by the direction of the Sanitary Committee, and read before the <assoc>Chicago Master Plumbers' Association</assoc>, July 24, 1890, by <person>Matthew L. Mandable</person>, member of the Chicago Association.

