



<doctype type="colophon">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	- TORONTO, CANADA.

TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL.



 SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada

or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign

countries, is	Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will he continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has appointed the "Canadian Architect and Builder" its official paper



The publisher of The Canadian Architect and Builder' desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery o] this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.



I

T is to be hoped that the project of a monument to the late Mr. Howard, the donor of High Park, Toronto, will not be lost sight of. Although the by-law for a $10,000 monument was defeated, we cannot but feel sure that if a definite scheme were brought forward looking to the erection of a building suitable

·for park purposes and durable in construction, dedicated to the late architect's memory, the people would gratefully vote the necessary money for its erection.



R

EFERENCE was recently made in these columns to the considerable number of accidents resulting from defective materials and carelessness in connection with the operation of freight and passenger elevators, and the consequent necessity for a system of regular inspection. It is a satisfaction to note that the subject has so impressed itself upon -the attention of the City Council of Montreal, that the Legislature of Quebec is to be petitioned to take action regarding it.



I

N about five months will be held the third annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects and the first convention of the Association as newly organized under the charter of the Ontario Government. To make the meetings of practical benefit, few thoughtful papers should be presented on live subjects. Now is the time to prepare such. Each member who is qualified to do so should feel it his privilege and duty to come

prepared with something which will be instructive and of benefit to the profession. The Registrar would be glad to correspond with such.



A

 CLEVER young lady belonging to Woodstock, Ont., who recently matriculated in arts at the University of Toronto, was taken with an irresistible desire to secure a memento of the old log house erected by her father at North Embro half a century ago. Driving several miles to the spot, she borrowed a

-saw and set to work to cut a block off the end of one of the logs. She soon discovered that a rock-elm log which had defied the elements for a period of fifty years, was reluctant to yield to the strength of a girl. Her determination was such, however, that after working upwards of an hour harder than she had ever done before, she had the satisfaction of carrying the block away in triumph. Her purpose is to send it to a firm in Chicago who will cut it into small pieces and erect therewith two miniature houses as nearly as possible like the original, and these, placed on the mantel of the modem home, will serve as a reminder of the past and an illustration of the progress in Canadian architecture.



A

N editorial article which recently appeared in Architecture and Building, complained of the lack of sufficient time allowed for the preparation of designs in architectural competitions. The complaint is without doubt well founded. As a rule the members of building committees seem to imagine that architectural designs can be turned out at machinery speed. One of our contemporary's correspondents, however, referring to the subject, takes the opposite view, affirming that architects entering competitions spend too much time in the preparation of elaborately finished drawings, and that they would save themselves expense and add to their chances of winning prizes, were they to give more time to perfecting their designs, using only pencil outline drawings for the purpose of illustrating their ideas. We would not advise any of our readers who may engage in a Canadian competition to be guided by the above advice, however applicable it may be to competitions in the United States, as here a showy picture" usually strikes at once the fancy of the judges, and carries off the premium, regardless in many instances of the questions of cost and adaptability.



S

o ME of the councillors in the <building>Woodstock Court House </building>embroglio seem to be a little mixed in regard to the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Guild </assoc>and the Ontario Association of Architects. One man said that he was "sorry that expert testimony from architects outside the Toronto Guild was not obtained." Another said he was "specially instructed to secure the services of the president of the Guild, and he was unable to find any other architect to act with him except another member of the Guild." As we understand it, the Guild is not an official body in any respect. It has no president, and the only officer is a secretary-treasurer, while its rules are few and practically those of a social club. The Ontario Association of Architects is the official body, of which one of the experts, <person>Mr. Storm</person>, is the president. The other expert was <person>Mr. Curry</person>, a member of the Council. The two other experts who reported prior to Messrs.

