

<doctype type="text"><person>Storm</person> and <person>Curry</person> were Messrs<person>. Langley </person>and <person>White</person>, the latter a Woodstock architect, and both members of the Ontario Association. The County Council could not very well obtain an architect outside of the Association to join with Mr. Storm, seeing that about 95 per cent. of the profession in Ontario are members of that organization.



O

UR attention has been called to a curious phase or external decoration for residences as exhibited in two instances in Fifth Avenue, New York. At the corner of one street are two large and costly mansions, buildings upon which no money has been spared either in the constructive or the decorative works. They are of stone, and the mouldings, panellings, corbels, etc., are all beautifully carved with very fine and intricate ornament; but in both cases the thickly-growing, small-leafed New York ivy has been allowed to overrun the whole of the ground story walls, enveloping every detail. The ivy has been carefully trained and fastened up, so that its outer lines are as straight and regular as the stone work it covers. The appearance is very artificial, and the upper part of the house rises out of a closely fitting green case, that looks as if it had been put on by the decorator at so much a yard. The question naturally arises as to what is the use of all the elaborate carving and the costly dressed stonework, if it is to be ultimately entirely concealed by evergreens.



W

HEN the council of a town or city invites tenders by public advertisement from contractors, justice demands that bids by non-resident contractors should receive equal consideration with those of tenderers who may reside within the municipality. It is a regrettable fact, however, that the outsider cannot always count upon receiving such consideration, as instanced by the treatment accorded one of the tenderers for certain work in connection with the construction of a new sewerage system at Brantford. The lowest offer was made by a <person>Mr. Dana</person>, of Brockville, but it was found to be informal in the sense that accompanying it was a cheque for $1,000 instead of $2,000 as required by the advertisement, The committee, evidently understanding that the wrong amount had been placed on the cheque inadvertently, wired Mr. Dana that $1,000 more security was required, and he immediately forwarded another cheque for the necessary amount. Notwithstanding, when the matter came before the Council for ratification, the slight irregularity in connection with Mr. Dana's tender was seized upon as an excuse by the majority of the aldermen to throw out the committee's recommendation of its acceptance, and call for new tenders, with the object doubtless of placing the contract in the hands of a home contractor. Some of the aldermen who were members of the Sewers Committee stultified themselves so far as to vote against their own report. Under such circumstances, it is not surprising that the chairman of the committee should have expressed disgust with the action of his colleagues, and tendered his resignation. _______________________







C

ANADA has to congratulate herself and the Grand Trunk Railway, on the successful accomplishment of one of the greatest engineering feats of the day in the practical completion of the tunnel under the St. Clair river at Sarnia, although it will scarcely be ready for traffic before the end of the year. The work has been conceived and executed by our men, showing that we are quite as capable of conducting great enterprises as are imported foreigners. It is simply a case of being given the opportunity. Our architects are as capable in their own line as are our engineers, but the opportunities are being withheld in an unpatriotic manner by those who ought to act differently. Given the money, our architects can, dollar for dollar, put up as good buildings in regard to both design and construction as can be erected by imported talent. The difficulties to be surmounted were enormous, and were further heightened by the rarity of the existing examples of tunnelling under like circumstances. Great credit is due to the skill and pertinacity of Mr. Joseph Hobson, the chief engineer, ably assisted by his enthusiastic lieutenant, Mr. <person>T. E. Hillman</person>, and a staff who vied with each other in inventing appliances to overcome the unprecedented difficulties

which were continually cropping up. The work was principally through blue clay, when the line of the river was reached, quicksand was encountered, and the water could only be kept out by the use of compressed air and heavy bulkheads with air locks for the passage of men and materials. A maximum pressure of 22 lbs. to the square inch was necessary towards the middle of the workings. The pressure was so great that horses could not stand it, mules having to be used. Only men of good constitution were employed after a medical examination. The cost will be over two and a half millions, towards which the Dominion Government has granted a subsidy of $375,000. The length of the tunnel is over 6,ooo feet, over 2,300 feet being under the river.



T

HE New York fire alarm boxes are a decided improvement upon those in use in most cities of Canada. Ours work very well, but their great disadvantage is that the key is not attached to them and has to be fetched from a neighboring house, the entrance door of which is sometimes up a garden path, with the possibility of a locked gate at the foot. To obtain the key it is necessary to ring up the servant, who may be newly arrived and know nothing about where it is kept. There is the further possibility of the key being mislaid or lost. The New York alarm boxes have no key, but a strong brass handle that has only to be turned to open the box, when upon pressure of the dial enclosed within it, the alarm is sounded. Instructions for sounding the alarm are clearly given on the outside of the box. It may be said that a handle that can be opened at will by any mischievous rough, is open to abuse—a cry of "fire" could bring out the whole brigade—but did this occur once or twice, the offender could soon be caught and made such an example of as would deter others from playing the trick again. Then again these boxes are placed in much more conspicuous positions. They form a part of a lamp post at a street corner, and are painted a bright red, so that they are easily distinguished at a distance and are not half hidden in one direction by the telegraph pole to which our boxes are secured. The cost of one of these boxes is considerably more than those in use by us, but it is generally conceded that every minute is of the greatest importance on the outbreak of a fire, whereby, it may be, several thousand dollars worth ot property may be saved by the brigade's arrival a few minutes earlier rather than later ; so that the cost of the box is hardly worth considering.



T

HE juvenile population of Toronto has increased at such an astonishing rate during the last five years that the energy of the Public School Board has been severely taxed in the effort to provide the necessary school buildings for its accommodation. Not only have many new buildings been erected, but the capacity of most of the existing schools has been enlarged. To do this work in the brief period in which it has been accomplished was no easy task, and accounts in some measure for the fact that some of the public school buildings of the city are lacking in architectural appearance. The principal cause of this, however, is doubtless the insufficiency of the funds at the disposal of the School Board. So great has been the unavoidable expenditure for new buildings, that the architect was compelled to carefully avoid everything intended simply for architectural effect. After all, the wisdom of erecting barn-like structures designed solely from the utilitarian standpoint and with the object of saving a few thousand dollars, is open to question if not to censure. This is being followed by the more than doubtful policy of putting up within many of the school grounds, and side by side with the school buildings, caretakers' "cottages" which are the very embodiment of ugliness. If the Public School Board cannot afford to purchase sites for caretakers' residences apart from the school grounds, or appropriate an amount sufficient for the erection of presentable cottages within the grounds, they might at least refrain from offending public taste by locating the "dog-kennels," such as they are at present building, in the rear of the schools, where they would be out of sight and therefore out of mind of everybody except the pupils. It seems a matter for regret that the children should be compelled to spend so much of their lives in contemplation of these cheap and nasty structures.

