	<doctype type="text">September, 1890	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	103



<article title="Venice" author="">VENICE.

T

O-DAY Venice unites to the poetry of her arts the poetry of her recollections, and to the poetry of her recollections the poetry of ha sadness. Her palaces are crumbling to decay, her statues fall in pieces from iheir pedestals, the smiling figures of her pictures vanish as the butterflies at the rude breath of winter.

The blow, which occasioned the variation of human movement towards other regions, as a consequence of the apparition of America in the world and the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope, the wound which ruined her commerce is not of a nature to be cured by her recent liberty, because liberty can not balance or undo geographical fatalities—Venice is dying— only in place of dying as an outcast in an Austrian dungeon, she dies like an honored matron in the bosom of her home and surrounded by her children.

Venice fell at the foot of the cradle of America, like Iphigenia at the foot of the cradle of Greece The paths of humanity are strewed with victims, and progress is not exempted from this law of necessity. Life is nourished upon death But on this account it is not the less sad to see a city perish— a city whose Doges had the imperial crown of Byzantium so often in their hands and repelled it by the Phrygian cap of the old republic to see a city fall whose standard terrified the Turks, and awakened the powers and energies of commerce to behold the death of a city whose liberties are the most ancient of the Christian era, and who alone has been the England of the Middle Ages to watch the slow decay of a city who in her cups of crystal, in her bacchanalian banquets, in her sensual songs, in her coral garlands and sea flowers brought to our hearts and imaginations the immoral aroma of the Renaissance.

How I regretted in that voyage through the streets of Venice that I was not a poet, or an orator, or a writer of any merit—that I could not lament with eloquence the death of that city unique in the world Ideas of mourning and desolation only were inspired by those floating coffins, those sombre palaces, the magnificent half ruined windows, the tortuous labyrinth of narrow streets and gloomy canals, the shadows outlined on the high bridges, the broken steps of marble kissed by the wavelets, the murmur of the water like tear falling on tear, and the cries of the gondoliers, which sounded like a wail repeated by another lament.

Of the arts, I confess that in my opinion the most wonderful and impressive is that of architecture. The stones of Venice, shaped by design as the notes of a piece of music or the parts of a discourse, where beauty and harmony are both expressed, give pure and intellectual pleasure. The great lines, the broad spaces, the ambitious arches, the aerial cupolas, the columns with their adornments, the galleries with their perspectives, the court-yards and their cloisters, force upon the mind profound meditations, and always express the genius of the age with its symbolical character.

I admire greatly the Grecian architecture, its soberness, its severe simplicity, its infinite gracefulness, the facility with which it expresses great sentiments with small means, and attains to beauty without doing violence to form, putting a light frieze, squared, on four fronts of intercolumniations, the whole being in perfect harmony and proportion.

I also admire the Romans, who placed one over the other three kinds of architecture in their monuments, as they placed one above another the three ages of history in their code of laws and in their civilization; and I shall never forget the great dome of the Pantheon where Paganism expired, nor the triumphal arches and magnificent gates of the new age of the world.

Above all, the sentiment with which ancient art always inspires me is a profound admiration for simplicity of form, and for a resemblance to nature in expression. But this enthusiasm for ancient art does not prevent me from doing justice to all the bold and striking beauties of architecture. Nothing is more illiberal than the exclusiveness of art. The architects of the past age—those destitute of refined taste—in their great dislike of the Gothic, succeeded in erecting some grand buildings, not such as could speak to the imagination, but dumb, severe, rigid with all the stiffness of death.

There are styles of architecture distinguished by the knowledge they express, by their complete subjection to the laws of harmony and proportion— such are the Greek and the Roman. Over these centuries have passed, and other things more destructive than ages—the unthinking and devastating rage of men; but that has been unable to prevail against their imperturbable strength and stability. Doubtless there are architectures distinguished by their expression, such as the Oriental and the Gothic. Venice appears in Granada, because Venice has an exclusive and suitable architecture, born of her peculiar historical circumstances. and representative of the ministry exercised by her between the east and the west. In like manner the people of Granada, always preserving the Moorish character which arrived at perfection in the <building>mosque of Cordova</building>, approached the Gothic; the Venetians, preserving the Byzantine and Gothic styles, general in the middle ages, flung over them like a golden veil the rich jewels of the east.

Thus Venice has created this series of monuments that are the wonder of wonders by their variety and their riches. If you go and examine them with Vitruvius in your hand, with the rules of Vignola in your mind, taking with you a square and compass, submitting them to a rigid mathematical examination, demanding from them a blind obedience to the laws of proportion and harmony, ready to feel indignant if you see a gallery supported

by iron work, or a heavy column placed upon a slender one, as if ridiculing the general principles of gravity—if you see that a mass of marble weighs like a mountain over the delicate tracery of a light aerial gallery—if you place mathematics over all and above all, you do not appreciate those edifices of the middle ages, that above all and before all place the wealth of expression, the riches of greatness, far-fetched and hyperbolical perhaps, but at the same time extremely beautiful.

Whenever the arts unfold themselves they strongly influence their surroundings. Venice is a magician, who obliges artists to follow her, and impresses her kiss of fire on their foreheads. The artists of ihe fifteenth century built severe edifices in Rome at the same time that the florid Gothic expended its open work roses in all Europe as the first flowers of the April of the Renaissance; and the Venetian architects, at the end of the sixteenth century and the beginning of the seventeenth, when the classic art had subdued it, without tailing to follow it, crowned the friezes of their monuments, the cusps of their towers, the roofs of their palaces, with ornaments and enamelled chiselings, always of the Oriental and Venetian character.

Let us go then and look at Venice. Our gondola glides over the Grand Canal; the waters are of an emerald green, the heavens of a turquoise blue, the banks of sand are tinged with gold, the houses on the neighboring islets are bright and many-colored, and the marble churches are so transparent that they look like churches of crystal, the sun gold's all objects with its rays. The beauties of Nature and the soft breeze perfumed with the aroma of spring, with the saline exhalations from the sea, fresh and invigorating, invite you with their voluptuous caresses to the infinite joys of existence.

We have time to admire this Grand Canal, which the Venetian painters reproduced in all manners, from the dawn of the school with Carpacco to its extinction by Canalletto, and have impressed indelibly on the retinas of the lovers of art.

In every town you first look for a monument or point whereon to fix attention—in Seville, the cathedral, in Granada, <building>the Alhambra</building>; in Cordova, <building>the Mezzinta</building>; in Rome, <building>the Colloiseum</building>; in Naples, <building>Vesuvius</building>; in Pisa, <building>the Campo </building>Santo; in Florence, La Piazza delia Signoria, and in Venice, the Square of Saint Mark. We arrive at the foot of its magnificent flight of stairs—we remain there in delighted astonishment.

I must confide in the goodness of the reader and hope he will excuse me for so ill describing this place. There is indeed a superb panorama before my eyes and a feeble pen in my hand. In the first place, the lagune. splendidly illuminated by the heavens, and the sun which borders its rays; at the north is the mouth of ihe Grand Canal, with its rows of palaces, at the extreme right of the mouth is the marble church of <building>Santa Maria della Salute Venice</building>, whose white cupolas are outlined wonderfully in the lustrous air. Before the church, elevated on a graceful tower, is a great sphere of gilded bronze, with an angel of dark bronze on the top, At the left side of the canal is a terrace, blooming with gay spring flowers and butterflies; near is a little square and the <building>palace of Sansovino Venice</building>, sculptured like a work of Cellini, and surmounted by a group of statues—the palace of the Doge at the other end, resting its mass of red and white marble on a double gallery of Gothic arches interlaced by a capricious arrangement of oriels, and adorned at the upper part of the columns with Byzantine sculptures, which harmonize and mingle admirably with the diadem of sharp triangles and the airy belfry above. Before these two monuments, the two columns of Oriental granite, two colossal monoliths, and, above, the crocodile of Saint Theodore and the lion of Saint Mark, which seem to exhale hot breath from their open mouths in the back grounds to the left, the Campanile, light and elegant, paved by a marvellously sculptured tribune, and crowned by an angel standing on a point and raising his wings on high; farther on, at the right side, the Basilica—Oriental, Gothic, Byzantine, Moorish—a mixture of all orders of architecture, an epitome of all epochs, its blue arches sown with stars, its columns of different colored jasper, its statues and its fantastic bell-towers, the four horses of Corinth above the door, mosaics of Venetian glass in the recesses, from the golden groundwork of which wonderful figures of all colors detach themselves; the cupolas above, small copies of those of Santa Sophia, like an apparition of Asia; and in the vast proportions of that panorama, the Riva degli Schiavoni filled with vessels, realized by the picturesque costumes of the Turks and Greeks, by the great Venetian population continually passing in that wide street; beyond, the isle of San Giorgio, with its church of red and white marble, the Gindecia, with its buildings of all colors of the rainbow; San Lazzaro, with its American convent whose Oriental towers look like the curved sail of a huge vessel; the Lido, with its groves of trees which touch the lagune with their branches, the nightingales filling the air with melody, the gardens like floating islands or gigantic bouquets flung upon the water, all crossed by the blue stripes of the canals, all varied by colors, and gilded or silvered by the sand banks—all diversified by the contrast between the white lateensails and the black venetian gondolas which glide around, all lulled by the waves of the Adriatic; the Alps in the distant west, resembling an army of celestial pyramids, and in the far east, like an eternal music, the wind which comes from the shores of Greece, It is unequalled in the world.



The <firm>Alderly Brick and Terra Cotta Co. </firm>has been formed at Victoria, B. C.. with a capital of $50,000.

A Kingston despatch states that <firm>Gordon & Fraser</firm>, extensive quarrymen

f Grindstone Island, have leased for a term of fifteen years the Deer Lake

granite quarry.

