<doctype type="text">	September, 1890	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	101



of a competent architect, they would have had a building properly constructed and of creditable appearance, at probably less expenditure of money than will eventually be necessary under present circumstances, And in addition, they would have escaped the delay and annoyance through which they are now passing. There are profitable lessons to be learned from the costly experience of the Oxford County authorities, the Toronto Board of Trade, and the Provincial Government of Ontario which should not go unheeded by other Canadian corporations who may engage in similar enterprises, and which should afford sufficient cause for the revision of the Ontario Architects' Act at the next session of the Legislature.



THE <building>WOODSTOCK COURT HOUSE</building>.

FOLLOWING is the report of the experts employed to report upon the quality of material and workmanship used in the erection of the new county buildings at Woodstock, Ont.:

'Toronto, August 13th, 1890.



<article title="W. Nancekivell Chairman of Building Committee Court House County Oxford" author="Storm, William, Curry S.G."><person>W.	Nancekivell</person>, Chairman of Building Committee, Court House, County of Oxford.

DEAR SIR,—In pursuance of your instructions we visited Woodstock on August 6th and 7th and examined the foundation walls of the proposed new court house for the county of Oxford and now beg to report as follows

That we made nine openings in the external wails and found that in six of the places opened the cement mortar or binding material had not set and that the same could be broken up with the pressure of the hand, In the other openings the cement mortar had set, but with the exception of the top of the wall at the north east corner It was not really hard. The material on the heart of the wails had the appearance of fine sand, almost devoid of cementing material.

We are unable to determine definitely the amount of cement or supposed cement, used in making the mortar which we found in the heart of the walls for the following reasons:

(1) The specification calls for Portland cement but does not define the quality and we are therefore ignorant of the quality of the cement used.

(2) The specification does not call for a proper quality of sand to mix with Portland cement, but instead either calls for or leaves it to be inferred that a fine sand is wanted.

(3) The method of using the cement according to the specifications was an improper one and would give bad results with the best of materials.

The specification should have called for a Portland cement of a definite quality and it should have been tested to ascertain if it was up to standard as it was brought upon the ground. Sand to be used with Portland cement should be coarse, sharp and clean. Portland cement to give good results should be thoroughly mixed with the sand in a dry condition and after. wards wetted with no more water than will damp it. If too much water is used it will injure the cement. In this case sufficient water was used to make the mixture into a grout, that it might be run into the inters'ices of the loose stone filling. The water not only injured the cement, but caused the sand to separate from the cement and settle at the bottom, leaving the cement to form a hard crust on the top of the wall.

The problem is to determine how far the quality of the cement, the quantity of cement used, the quality of sand and the methods of mixing individually and conjointly resulted in the inferior quality of the work as shown by the majority of the openings made. We are of the opinion that each and every of the above causes had to do with the result, but to what extent can only be determined after a long and careful series of experiments with samples of Portland cement and sand similar to that used in the walls, mixed in the manner called for by the specification.

If the Portland cement had been of good quality and mixed in the pro. portions called for in the specification with coarse, sharp, clear sand with a proper quantity of water, the mortar would have set firm and hard in a few days. That the mortar or grout did not set in three weeks and over proves that the materials used were not of good quality or that they were not properly mixed.

We cannot affirm positively that the contractor did not use the proper quantity of Portland cement, because the inferiority of the Portland cement, the bad quality of the sand, and the method of mixing and using were sufficient to give the results shown by the portions of the wall taken down. We have reason to believe and it is our opinion that the amount of Portland cement called for in the specification was not used, as the sand taken from the walls was much cleaner than it would have been if the one-fourth of its bulk had been composed of any quality of cement, goad or bad.

The sample of cement which we brought with us from Woodstock is of an inferior quality and did not give good results under the simple tests to which we subjected it. We are convinced that a pail of such cement mixed with three parts of the sand used in the construction of the building would not give an adhesive mortar which would set firm and hard in a reasonable length of time. With regard to the external basement walls we are obliged to come to the conclusion that they are not sufficiently well built to carry the super-structure without settlements, cracks, etc., even if they do not entirely fail.

(1) Because the construction of the wall as called for by the specifications is exceedingly bad, and

(2) Because the cement mortar or grout has little or no binding qualities. In our opinion it will be impossible to totally remove the stain from the face of the coarser stonework, as Portland cement will leave more or less stains on any stonework which it may touch.

In conclusion we beg to call your attention to the tact, that the specifications, while they call for work and material of a better quality in parts than is necessary, call also in other parts for very inferior work, and are so indefinite or entirely silent in other points that the contractor may read them very much as he may choose, so long as he does a reasonably fair piece of work, according to a fair interpretation of the drawings and specifications in their present condition.

We have the honor to be, sir,

Your obedient servants,

<person>WILLIAM STORM</person>.



<person>S.G. CURRY</person>.





<article title="An American Criticism" author="">AN AMERICAN CRITICISM.

"	AN American architectural journal having called attention to the fact  that Canada has a protective tarift on building plans, another architectural journal, published in Canada, intimates that Americans have no cause of complaint, as the American government also levies duty upon the drawings of foreign architects It also accuses a prominent Amencan architect of willfully, and without having the fear of Canadian customs officers before his eyes, smuggling a whole batch of American made drawings into the Dominion, And the CANADIAN ARCHITECT sternly demands that this "smuggler" be made an example of. And so we have been

"protected" all along, and in our ignorance of the blessings that were being showered on us by a fostering government, have gone on growing poorer and poorer through these hard times! But now a new star of hope has appeared above the northern horizon. We will take our portfolios of unused designs and sneak over the border and, should we be lucky enough to elude or bribe the stern guardians of Canada's tariff laws, we may yet reap a golden harvest. Our lively Canadian contemporary devotes a great deal of attention to the encroachments of American architects upon Canadian preserves, and proposes to call upon all the power of the customs department to make as much trouble for the poachers and "smugglers" as possible. It strikes us that in making all this fuss our contemporary is but paying a left-handed compliment to our Canadian brethren Are not they competent enough to hold their own in competition against men from a distance? It would seem that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT is so doubtful on that subject that it wants to throw the protection of the law around them We saw. the other day, a beautifully designed house, in one of our northwestern cities, and, on inquiry, discovered that some man in Canada was the architect Some Canadians can, evidently, hold their own. This Canadian had carried off some good American money, but hardly anyone living in the neighborhood he had enriched artistically would mourn over the fact. Are not our brethren looking too much to statutory law, instead of putting themselves into line with certain natural laws, to give them success? Probably no body of architects ever had so much of the former kind before as these, our brothers in the province of Ontario. But the Act passed for their benefit by their provincial legislature last winter does not seem to have much effect except to call down upon them the jibes of their brethren in the United States and England. Even the staid organ of the Royal Institute of British Architects cannot refrain from making a little joke to the effect that there have been architects and architects but now it ' has been decided that, within at least the confines of the province of Ontario, there shall be architects and 'registered architects." It is time that some Americans as well as our brothers in Canada had found out the futility, the folly, of depending on legislative enactments to procure for them the prizes which, with courage strengthened hands they may grasp for themselves. '—Northwestern Architect.

In reply to the above it is proper to remark, that with the abstract theories of free trade versus protection, this journal has had nothing to do. It has simply dealt with conditions as they exist. The Government of the United States, in its wisdom, saw fit to declare that designs by Canadian architects should not be allowed to cross the border without paying duty. The Canadian Government, believing doubtless that if duties were necessary to protect the architects of so large and important a nation as the United States against the competition of a country of lesser importance, such as Canada, there must certainly be greater need for their imposition to protect the weaker as against the stronger competitor, readjusted the Canadian tariff with that object. We have no fault to find with the honorable competition of American architects for Canadian work, but in view of the fact that Canadian architects are shut out by the United States tariff from competing for American work, American architects who are not above adopting the methods of the smuggler, should not be allowed to " sneak" their plans into this country. We repeat that it is the duty of the Canadian customs authorities, whose attention has been drawn to the guilty parties, to make a determined effort to expose and put a stop to their dishonest practices. Canadian architects do not fear the competition of honorable men, but their ideas concerning the ethics which should govern the practice of men claiming to be members of an exalted profession, are such as place them at great disadvantage in competition with some at least of the American architects who aspire to "reap a golden harvest" in the Dominion. The

