<doctype type="text">September, 1890 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





THE idea of a tunnel as a solution of the Toronto Esplanade problem is being mooted. The land damages would certainly be very small as compared with a viaduct, and many of the vested privileges of the Grand Trunk Railway would be left untouched, while traffic would be undisturbed pending its completion. But we doubt if it could be accomplished by the expenditure of a million dollars, as its promoters assert. Why not excavate the whole street and arch it over, as was proposed some years ago for Broadway, N. Y., making practically a two storey street. The lower storey would serve not only for railway traffic, but could be used as a subway for electric light and telephone wires, gas pipes and even the trunk sewer, which could be made of iron for the distance traversed by the tunnel. The tunnel should be carried through Parkdale as far as the intersection of Queen street with the railway. By putting Queen street north of the railways till it reaches High Park as already proposed, and also carrying all streets over the railway tracks which will run along the Don Valley, our city front would be practically relieved of grade crossings. A grand union station should be located between Yonge and Bay streets, convenient to the principal steamboat and ferry landings. If it could be arranged as a terminal station it would greatly conduce to the comfort of passengers and to the better classification of trains and routes. It would be a great pity to duplicate and continue the present faulty arrangements, which are dangerous and inconvenient, but withal perhaps unavoidable in the case of a large station on a through line. The hundreds of passengers daily using the Grand Trunk Railway have to cross two tracks both inside and outside of the station in order to reach their trains, while it is very difficult for friends to meet travellers unless they have previously agreed upon some point of waiting. Passengers and non-passengers are hopelessly and inextricably mixed, the car steps and passages are blocked frequently by people who have no business on the train, a state of things which would not be allowed for a moment in a first-class station in any other city of similar size.



<person>M

R. JENNINGS</person>, the newly-appointed City Engineer, is fast getting a grasp of the various engineering problems which must be faced in the near future in Toronto. The proposal to build subways on the two principal streets is a step in the right direction. Now is the time, when new pavements are being mooted, to press this improvement, which can be done to better advantage than when the situation becomes still more complicated by additional buried wires, pipes, tubes, etc. New York down town streets are fairly honeycombed with a mass of pipes, tubes and wires that look perfectly appalling when laid bare. To lay other pipes amid this net work, or to repair or enlarge those already laid, must be a very expensive matter, in fact in many cases it would be cheaper to abandon them than to repair any great length. The grand jury, meeting recently in the above city, after making a presentment in regard to the evils of the present system, or rather lack of system, held that all companies using the streets be held to strict accountability for any damage occasioned by their neglect, and that no more permits be granted for uptearing streets already covered with pipes, etc. They wound up by the following recommendation:

"As a future remedy, we suggest the appointment by the proper authorities of a commission of strictly non-political experts who shall consider the feasibility of vesting the management of street paving and of all underground pipes and sewers, and of devising a new system by which the benefits of steam, gas, water, electricity and sewage can be had more safely, and with less official obstructions." New York should have faced the problem years ago before so many underground conduits were laid. We have the example before us; the complications are beginning and will continue to multiply. Let us be wise beforehand, not afterwards, and the rising generation will bless us for our forethought. The scheme of the Engineer for a trunk sewer seems somewhat more complicated than those previously broached. To our unsophisticated mind a part of the lower intercepting sewer seems to run up hill, at least it takes a northerly direction, while all our streets running north and south have more or less fall to

the south. The fact of being able to avoid the expense, both first cost and running, of a pumping plant is a great point in its favor.



E

VENTS transpiring in various parts of the world at the present time seem to indicate that the tyranny exercised by the trades unions will before long be broken. From the United States, England and Australia comes the intelligence that associations of employers are being formed for defence against the dictation of the walking delegate who assumes to represent the interests of labor. A serious state of affairs is at present existing in the city of New York, brought about by the use of the boycott by representatives of the union workmen in the building trades. The boycott was declared against four firms of brick manufacturers who refused to discharge their nonunion employees at command of the walking delegates. The union mechanics of the city of New York refused to handle the bricks manufactured by these firms or to work on buildings where they were used. The master builders, in their terror of the power of the unions, acquiesced in this refusal. The <assoc>Brick Manufacturers' Association of New York and New Jersey</assoc>, which embraces the owners of over 120 yards, espoused the cause of the four boycotted firms, and determined that they would fight the unions with their own weapon by refusing to ship bricks to New York and Brooklyn so long as the boycott was continued. This means that if the boycott ordered by the unions is maintained, the supply of bricks obtainable in these cities will speedily be exhausted and 60,000 workmen will be forced into idleness. There are but few games at which two cannot play, and the boycott does not happen to be one of them. While we are far from upholding the principle of boycotting, the unions have carried their tyranny to the point where it has been found absolutely necessary to use some effectual means of putting a stop to its further progress, and they at least certainly have no cause for complaint if the methods which they have so often exercised, are brought to bear for this purpose. If employers everywhere would adopt the example of the New York and New Jersey brickmakers, a crisis would be precipitated which would doubtless result in the strike and the boycott being declared a crime, to be followed by severe punishment. This would be an important step towards securing the settlement of differences between employers and employees by more civilized methods. Since the above was written information has been received to the effect that a number of the wealthiest manufacturing concerns of the United States, employing between 50,000 and 60,000 workmen, have formed an anti-strike compact. Should the trades unions attempt to enforce unreasonable demands against any one of the associated concerns, all work will cease. The strikers are to be allowed to remain idle until they see fit to return to work and no factory is to employ another worker who may have left another factory on a strike. Neither is any associated factory to seek workers during a strike from any of the federated works. This important movement, as before stated, will undoubtedly extend throughout the world if the dictatorship attempted to be exercised by the trades unions be not abandoned.	__________________





M

R. <person>J. R. Putnam</person>, architect, of Boston, of anti-trap ventilation fame, and the inventor of the "Sanitas" plumbing appliances, has an incompleted series of articles in the July and August numbers of the American Architect entitled "Architecture under Nationalism," inspired largely by Bellamy's "Looking Backward" He defines Nationalism as the "substitution of universal co-operation and education for industrial and social warfare." Considered in its relation to the architectural art, he reviews first the general and then the specific advantages which nationalism will bring. Before enlarging on the benefits to be received to architecture and its practitioners through Nationalism, the writer cites some of the material advantages to be gained, which are quite as seductive as <person>Dr. Lecte </person>could have wished. After enumerating these advantages in a most interesting manner, he goes on to say, "What will be the effect upon the architecture of our country, of this universal enjoyment of wealth and cultivation, this immeasurably improved condition of

