



<doctype type="text">the whole people under Nationalism? It will develop a national style of architecture which will surpass in splendor anything hitherto known in the history of the art, even as the superior social state of the ancient Greek republic produced, in the midst of an age of comparative barbarism, the art of Phidias. He then affirms that the conditions which produced and fostered the arts of Greece and its great artists, will be reproduced under Nationalism, and says, "The great wealth of the Nation will give every citizen something of the leisure so fruitfully applied by the ancient Greeks to the study of art. With short working days of perhaps from four to six hours, and frequent and liberal vacations absolutely free from business cares, ample opportunity will be given for physical and intellectual development. Relieved from the all-absorbing occupation of money-making and money-losing, with its long train of consequent evils, and equipped with the complete education received in early life, consisting partly of manual and partly of mental training (the one or the other predominating in accordance with the natural aptitude of the individual), all the useless pursuits, legal, military and criminal, necessitated by the competitive system, being abolished, the entire energy of the whole people will be directed to the cultivation of the arts and sciences including manufacture, agriculture and transportation," and this leads to a reference of the telling words of Van Brunt's introduction to his translation of <person>Violet Le Duc</person>'s "Discourses" where he speaks of the difficulties besetting the architect of the present day in regard to the lack of time allowed him for perfecting his designs.



The portion of Van Brunt's introduction to Le Duc's "Discourses above referred to, is so appropriate to the times that we cannot forbear quoting, as follows: "The atmosphere of haste in which we live is another element distinctly detrimental to the development of good style. But the Greek democracy, says our author, 'had the inestimable advantage of leisure.' The Greek temple, therefore, is an expression of utter tranquility. The very essence of that great art was deliberation. The architect was never hurried; his inspiration proceeded, not from impulse, but from conviction. He built slowly. But with us he is pressed to the completion of his work amidst bustle and confusion. The public is impatient of delay; it must have promptness and dispatch at all hazards. The modem Ictinus must supply the design for the new Parthenon, 'ready for estimates,' in three weeks at farthest; and the unfinished study is perpetuated in a workmanlike manner and with all its sins of omission and commission made permanent and monumental. Indeed, all the conditions of life in this country encourage the architect to habits rather of rapid composition than of study and reflection, and tend to make of his occupation rather a business than a fine art. The 'strenuous liberty' which we have inherited involves a constant and often harassing struggle for existence. Therefore the aim of the architect is to multiply his opportunities of professional work to the Utmost extent, having in view, first, his pecuniary enrolments, of course, and second, his art. Under these circumstances he has no time to review his studies ; he cannot afford, after his first sketches are made and his work is in progress of routine development in his office, to distrust and chasten his favorite motifs, with the solicitude and patience of an artist aiming at perfection like the Greek; much less having discovered on reflection a new condition in his problem which would enable him perhaps to raise to a higher plane of artistic excellence or fitness the whole sentiment of his work, to throw aside his old studies and begin anew. This costs too much. If the products of routine and conventionality will satisfy his impatient public, he has the strongest impulse under the circumstances to content himself with the superficial appearance and let the substances of art go for those who can afford it. Art is a mistress who is won by no such partial service.



" As a man sows he shall reap," is a Scriptural verity  which seems to be quite as applicable to municipal

corporations as to individuals. The difficulty in which the County Council of Oxford finds itself at present in connection with the erection of new county buildings at Woodstock, Ont., is sufficient evidence of this fact. A year ago the Council invited

competitive designs for a <building>Court House Woodstcok</building>, and announced that the completed building must not cost more than $60,000. We pointed out that the extent of the accommodation required was so great as to render impossible the erection of a properly designed and constructed building for a sum less than $100,000. The Council turned a deaf ear to our remonstrance and that of the architectural profession, and proceeded with the competition on the lines orginally laid down. A few designs were sent in by Canadian architects, one of which was deemed highly satisfactory, but it had to be cast aside as the designer could not undertake to say that it could be erected for less than $100,000. The plans of a Detroit architect who would undertake to keep inside the limit of cost, were adopted, and the contract for the erection of the building was given to a Detroit contractor.



The work was proceeded with, and nothing more was heard of the matter until last month, when the building committee ordered the contractor to cease work on the ground of inferior construction. A special meeting of the County Council was held, and two architects, Mr. <person>Alex. White</person>, of Woodstock, and <person>Mr. Langley</person>, of Toronto, were appointed to inspect and report on the building. These gentlemen reported unfavorably. The Council, wishing to be doubly sure, appointed Messrs. <person>W. G. Storm </person>and <person>S. G. Curry</person>, of Toronto, to make a second inspection. The result of the investigation which these gentlemen conducted was given to the Council in a formal report, of which a copy is printed elsewhere in this paper. On the strength of these reports, the Council dismissed the architect, one of the members stating that the architect had misled the council in the first place into a bad system and in not doing his work well. He was sorry to have to say that he did not believe it was altogether incompetency on the part of the architect. Subsequently the offer of another architectural firm to superintend the carrying out of the work for a commission of two and one-half per cent., was accepted. It was also thought advisable to appoint a clerk of the works. The original architect expresses his intention of bringing action against the County Council for wrongful dismissal. The contractor holds a certificate from the architect for upwards of $3,000, and he, too, for a time threatened to make it interesting for the Council, who had refused him payment. Upon second thought, however, he consented to proceed with the work, leaving the newly appointed architects to decide regarding the sum which he may be entitled to receive. The former architect refused to surrender his working plans, consequently new ones must be prepared at the expense of the county. It is not known what course the newly appointed architects propose to follow for the purpose of improving the constructive qualities of the building. The proper and only satisfactory method would seem to be to undo entirely what has already been done, lay a proper foundation, and build thereupon in accordance with the recognized laws of construction.



And here it seems proper to inquire upon whom should rest the responsibility for all this expensive bungling? Undoubtedly the blame lies with the county authorities themselves. They required a large amount of accommodation, but fixed the appropriation to cover the cost at a sum which was absurdly inadequate for the purpose. When no architect of any prominence would risk his reputation in an effort to accomplish the impossible, the building committee, instead of increasing the appropriation to the extent necessary to ensure the erection of a good building, handed the work over to a foreigner, whose standing in the profession can easily be gauged by the fact that he immediately took up his residence in Woodstock and proposed to give his whole time to the one undertaking, from which the percentage he would derive would not afford him an income of more than $1,000 per year. The contractor was also a foreigner and unknown, except to the architect, and subsequent events have led people to ask themselves whether there did not exist a business arrangement between the two by which they were to get all they could out of the undertaking. However that may have been, the course pursued by the County Council of Oxford has borne its legitimate fruit. Had they made a sufficient appropriation for the work, and engaged the services

