<doctype type="text">October, 1891   THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 	99



<article title=" PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIES IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO.

" author="Chipman, Willis C. E.">PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIES IN THE PROVINCE OF

ONTARIO.

BY <person>WILLIS CHIPMAN C. E</person>.

It is now an acknowledged fact that in cities and towns without a public water supply and without a sewerage system, the death rate is higher than in the rural districts or in those cities and towns that have availed themselves of these evidences of civilization.

From the standpoint of the economist no town of a population of 1,000 people can afford to be without a public water supply for fire protection, as the interest on the first cost will he met by the decrease in insurance premiums, while from the standpoint of the philanthropist, the humanitarian and the medical health officer, no town should he without an ample supply of pure water for domestic purposes, and a system of sewers to carry away the water used anti the wastes with which it will he burdened, to such point that no danger can arise from its disposal.

in Canada we find that the first public water supply of any importance was introduced into the City of Montreal by a private company in 1801 these works were sold to another company in 1816 to a third company in 1832, and eventually to the city in 1845. New works were constructed by the city in 1833-56.

The next city to introduce a water supply was St. John's, N. B., where in 1836 a company constructed storks which were abandoned in 1849-50, when new works were built, lit 1855 the city purchased the works.

In Toronto, water works were constructed in 1841 by a company which operated them until 1873 when the city purchased the works.

Halifax purchased her water works in 1861 from a company a high constructed them in 1845-48.

These were the only works in Canada in 1850. In 1860 we had nine works, in 1870 ten, in 1880 twenty-nine. in 1891 the number of cities and towns supplied with water works is nearly one hundred but in about twenty of these the supply is for fire purposes only.

We will now consider the water works of Ontario only.

to this Province about 30 per cent. of the water works are owned and operated by private companies while the population served is probably not 15 cent. of the total supplied. The average total family rate in Ontario is about $20 per annum in works oared by municipal corporations and $23 per annum where owned by a company. The cost of works in Ontario is about 35 cent, less per family in private works and the charge 20

cent. more than where works are owned by the municipal corporation

there are 44 cities, towns and villages in which the water works are now owned anti operated by the municipal corporation 13 of these being for fire protection only. Private companies own and operate 14 water works, in one of which (Napanee) the water is of such exceedingly bad quality that we will classify it as for fire purposes only.

In the majority of these 14 towns and villages the expenditure of a comparatively small additional amount would have secured an ample supply of pore water for domestic purposes as well as a fire supply, would have decreased the death rate and disease and would probably bring its a revenue after paying operating expenses.

In many of these towns is engineering advice was not sought, and it a few it was tint followed.

In some of these towns the water is used for lawn sprinkling, for cattle and horses, for baths, for water closets, for all purposes except drinking and cooking, and the temptation may often induce people to use it for these purposes as well. Herein is a great danger. Water once drawn from a tap and used for drinking and cooking will probably continue to be so used until sickness occurs. To those towns supplied with elevated tanks, reservoirs or stand pipes in which to store the fire service water, the foregoing remarks especially apply.

These results are convincing that the private companies in the Province of Ontario now supplying water to cities and towns on the franchise plan are not giving these towns as good water as other cities, towns anti villages are supplied with. In only one place is subterranean water being supplied, and in this place it was forced upon the company.

Quantity rather than ''quality -, is their motto.

The short-sighted municipal finance minister who only considering water works from the standpoint of dollars and cents, revenue, interest and running expenses, and the silver-tongued (fingered?) franchise agent, are often (separately or jointly) directly responsible for the selection of so many inferior water supplies throughout the Province,

Where water works are contemplated. the local boards of health should investigate intelligently and thoroughly before adopting for a public supply a water that is of a suspicious quality or one liable to future pollution.

Analysis of water as now generally conducted are a humbug amid a delusion, the honest scientist being no match for the wily manipulator. the color, taste, smell and temperature of the water supplied, and a study of the conditions surrounding the drainage area from which the water is drawn are of greater weight than any analysis in determining the purity of water. The problem of possible pollution from sewage or from farm drainage in the future should also be carefully considered

In all cases the problem of selecting a source of supply should be carefully



 Abstract of a paper read before the <assoc>Association of Medical Health Officers of Ontario</assoc>.

considered into reported on by some disinterested authority before the works are designed and the schemes and machinations of the disciples of

quantity rather that quality should he met by the remonstrances of all  sanitariums





<article title=" PLUMBING PRACTICE " author="">PLUMBING PRACTICE.

IT is not expected that every plumber is possessed of know— ledge requisite to thoroughly distribute water in all parts (If a  building. with equal facility to each floor upon which job is placed plumbing apparatus says Fire and Water. Where high pressures exist little difficulty is experienced, provided frictional resistances and cross section (If area of pipe and branch supplies are considered in their relations each other. It is often said by way of excuse for bad judgment in the plan of local distribution that there is a lack of pressure, when it is found to he a lack of volume of water (pipe not large enough),. It is a common practice in local distribution fir plumbers to I-tin one size of pipe throughout the entire building, with branch connections of same size on each floor, apparently forgetting or ignoring the fact that each added length, whether vertical or horizontal, increases friction, diminishes pressure and reduces flow-.

In order to overcome these difficulties, a little study upon the subject will be a great help to the progressive plumber. A study also upon the question of ''taking out branch supplies from "the main supply, as to the angle of connection, will be found to be profitable A great deal of pains is taken with water—pipe connections; as to angle of connections, the same rule applies with more force with respect to branch supply from main supply. Right angle connections are very pretty as lines of harmony, but in water-pipe practice they should never be allowed. The rule of following parabolic paths or curvatures in connections will largely lessen friction and preserve the continuity of a water column passing from one line of delivery to another.



<article title=" HOUSE HEATING IN THE FUTURE " author="">HOUSE HEATING IN THE FUTURE.

 OBERLIN SMITH in a lecture before the <building>Franklin Institute at Philadelphia</building>, I a, spoke as follows of the possibilities of the displace— went of coal in favor of gas or electricity for heating purposes:

In the matter of warmth there is certainly an inviting field for our future inventors. That our present methods of heating by the burning of coal and the non burning of smoke, and of cooling by carrying in lumps of ice, are crude and wasteful, its well as extremely irregular and uncomfortable it is not necessary to argue about. It seems probable that its the near future, at any rate for our cities, some system of gas heating will displace

and this is the more likely from

coal and wood to a large extent

the fact that our streets and houses ate already supplied wills

time necessary pipes, which may perhaps he gradually thrown out of use, as conveyors of illuminating gas, by the improvement and development of electric lighting. There also seems a tendency among inventors in recent years to attempt some kind of artificial cooling by the distribution through Pipes of cold air is freezing mixtures of varying kinds; also to contrive cheap tee-making or other cooling machines, which can be economically used in individual buildings. All this is in a direct line of progress, but it seems probable that at some time in the future

we shall depend upon trimly electric current brought into each building through a single wire, not only for our lighting and power, but for our heating and cooling also. Just how the latter process is to be accomplished a-c do not yet know, but reasoning by analogy, it would not seem outside the range of possibility when we consider the fact that the burning of coal in a furnace can be made In produce heat or cold at will. It is true that while electric heating in itself has been proved to be perfectly practicable, yet at present it is not economical. This is owing to the fact that our best and largest steam engines by which we run our dynamos utilize only ft firm to  15 per cent. of the energy stored in the coal, lavishly- wasting the remainder. Fortunately, our dynamos have reached an efficiency- of about 90 per cent., so that there is not much waste in using the electric current after the power to produce it is once generated. It is probable, therefore, that the use of electric heating will for the present be somewhat limited, and confined to special places where its convenience will offset its extra cost. For an extension of its employment thus, as for certain other important uses of electricity', and upon a scale far beyond anything we cast now imagine, we must wait until we learn how to produce this current of pure energy' from the coal or other fuel direct. Than the accomplishment of this feat, there is to day also more fascinating problem in the realms of science. Many are working at it, with as yet but small success. We need not despair, however, as it seems to be a logical possibility, and the only thing required is to find out how to do it.'

