<doctype type="text"><article title=" TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH CLUB " author=""><assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL SKETCH CLUB</assoc>.



AT the meeting held on Nov. 9th, Mr. <person>John Millar</person>, of the <firm>J. F. Pease Furnace Co.</firm>, addressed the members on the subject of

Heating." The president of the Club, <person>Mr. Pearson</person>, occupied the chair.

Mr. Millar said: "I appear before you to night to give a walk Upon the important subject of heating buildings. My experience has been gained in a practical way, and from this point of view I propose to talk to you this evening it is possible that views may be advanced that will conflict with your ideas, but a great deal of knowledge is gained by hearing the opinions and experiences of different men engaged in every given line, and I will leave you to form your own conclusions.

"The three great systems of heating are by the use of steam, hot water and warm air." (The speaker here explained the meaning of the terms "direct," " indirect," and " direct indirect" heating by steam and hot water, and went on to explain further heating by the system known as the "combination ) This can be done by a combination of steam and warm air and by hot water and warm air. The advantages of this system over steam and hot water are, that perfect ventilation can he secured at less expense, and perfectly free from any danger of the system freezing up. The pure air from the outside of the building is passed into the heater and out through the registers, warmed, giving forth sufficient pure warm air for ventilating. The balance of the heat required is given by the radiators which may he placed in rooms at a distance from the heater.

Of the different systems, heating by warm air is the cheapest, and in greater demand than any other, but there are many difficulties in the way to secure good results. These to a great extent can be removed by you, and I propose now to deal with some of them and point out to you how they can be obviated.

"It is of great importance that a good location be secured for the heater, and just here you can assist the heating man to advantage; arrange your cellar rooms so that the heater can be centrally located, if necessary giving the rooms to the north and west the advantage."

Here the speaker made a sketch of the ground floor of a building, showing how it could be heated with the very best results, and without taking up very much room in the cellar. In Fig. t, dotted lines show the furnace and pipes in the cellar. Another sketch was made (Fig. 2) showing how some architects would like to have the work done.

It would be of great advantage to the furnace men if larger space could lie secured to run pipes to large and exposed rooms. This can be done by using 2 x 6 studding in place of the 2 X 4 which is generally used. A little forethought on this particular point will make a heating system a success that would otherwise be a complete failure."

Ground floor registers should be placed in the floor. They may be placed in the wall provided there is capacity enough in the space between the studding for the size of pipe required, but









very much better work can he secured from registers placed in the floor."

The attention (if the audience was then drawn to the defects to be found in chimneys. Fig. 3 shows a defective flue, when by making the change to the other side of the chimney (Fig. 4) a good flue can be had for the heater, leaving the crooked flue for the fire place. The flue should lie straight without openings except that for the smoke pipe, and well and smoothly parged."

The speaker then spoke of the proper position in rooms for warm air registers and steam and hot water radiators.

Registers should be placed as far away from windows s as possible, and on the opposite side from a fire place. This cannot always be done people do not build houses to suit the

heating apparatus, so we have to do the best we can with the house presented for the work.

"Steam and hot water radiators should be placed near or under windows ; they radiate heat And warm the air coming in contact with them. Warm air from the furnace is conducted, and if conducted into the room near a window, the warm air is cooled quickly by coming in contact with the cold surface of the glass, and falling to the floor cold, cannot be heated."

As there is no rule to guide in laying out a system of heating by warm air, the speaker's advice was that architects shouldn't









attempt the work, but leave it to the heating expert, especially as a guarantee is always given to heat the building.

In conclusion he thanked the Club for the close attention they had given him, and said he would be pleased to answer any questions, or explain any points that might not have been made as clear to them as lie would have wished.

An interesting discussion took place, Messrs. <person>Curry</person>, <person>Gregg</person>, <person>Johnson</person>, and others taking part.

Mr. Curry explained some very interesting points, and referring to the lecturer, said " we have had one of the most instructive lectures given to us in a long time.'

A hearty vote of thanks was passed to <person>Mr. Millar</person>, the chairman expressing the opinion that the speaker had fully covered the subject.



The following is a synopsis of the "Talk" on Classic Architecture" at the Club rooms, Oct. 26th, by Mr. <person>Gambier-Bousfield</person>, <assoc>A.R.I.B.A. </assoc>(Mr. Bousfield had prepared some rough crayon sketches of details of proto-classic caps and a map of the countries in which the art flourished before the birth of Christ, and these were exhibited together with prints from various professional journals bearing upon the subject.)

The lecturer called the attention of the chairman to the absence of note books among the students, and urged upon them the necessity of taking notes, as he also advocated very strongly that the students should come prepared to ask questions at the conclusion of the " talk," as discussion was the only way to bring out points that a lecturer might have omitted, especially in an extemporary "talk" like the present. He said he was gratified at being invited to give the opening "talk" of the season, and only regretted that more time had not been allowed him for the preparation of a paper, but he trusted that his audience would exercise patience towards a man unaccustomed to extemporary speaking. He did not intend to treat so much upon the subject of proportion as to show how false was the notion that the Greeks "invented" the orders, and to explain how the orders were developed from previous and distant empires. The Greeks were, as a nation, the most conceited people that ever lived they attempted to show to their posterity that they invented everything they made use of—that they even invented astronomy

·—even if they did not go so far as to pretend they invented the stars. Certainly they were a wonderful people, possessed (if a genius unknown before, but had it not been for the foundation of art laid in other countries hundreds of years before, upon which the Greeks added a superstructure, they could never have attained to such perfection in the art as they did.

To understand this, it would lie necessary to take a glance at the map, which exhibited the boundaries of some eight or ten great empires that preceded the republics of Greece. There was the Egyptian empire, dating from B. C. 4,000 to B. C. 600; the newly discovered, hut no less important, empire of the Hittites, covering the whole of Asia Minor and holding away alternately with Egypt over Syria, where history ran concurrently with that of Egypt or from about 2,300 B. C. to 1,300 B. C. (The lecturer here called attention to the fact that be was purposely making use of round numbers in his dates to simplify the subject.) Th

.n the centre of that area which had at its foot cot tiers the BI

