<doctype type="text">  THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	October, 1891



THE whole secret of design in architecture may be summed up in the terms Proportion and Expression, for the differences which mark off one style from another are those mainly derived from the form and

proportion of the openings, says The Building News. Professor <person>Banister Fletcher</person>, in his opening address to students of architecture at Kings College, very appropriately alluded to the subject of proportion, which lie illustrated by taking the openings of <building>Somerset House </building>and by showing by model the effect of first a doorway of half its width in height, next making it a square opening, then adding one-third of the width to the height, and lastly, making the h eight twice the width.

Through the low opening may be really high enough for a doorway, the mind naturally reverting to the human figure as a standard of proportion, or, to the fitness of things, at once condemns the proportion as bad for a doorway. We sometimes, t is true, see wide entrances to the pits of theatres, drill halls and warehouses but they invariably look out of proportion that is, they appear awkward and offensive to our sense of fitness. Even in some <building>Queen Anne houses </building>we have seen doors of about 1 square, which looks contrary to our standard, because we naturally recall to the mind the human proportions, though, as a matter of actual use, the wide opening may be an advantage n getting in or out large pieces of furniture. The manner of teaching proportion which the professor adopted, has the merit of jocularly demonstrating one oft the essential principles of design, for there are many people who imagine that a few inches more or less in the width of a door or window make no difference whatever. The same disregard, or ignorance, (if a pleasing proportion is seen in the planning or selection of rooms, as if it made no difference whether the room was square or oblong, and hat furniture of a certain size and shape could be made to look equally as well in a square room as in an oblong room. The window. like the door, has its own pleasing proportion. We can widen a window, as Prof. <person>Bannister Fletcher </person>says, but we can easily spoil it by the operation unless we take care to preserve he unit of proportion by sub—dividing the width by mullions, as n a gothic window, or by bringing the eye to rest on proportion if one of he panes. But it is absolutely essential to preserve some unit or individual part in a wide window, or it would lie quite as offensive as a wide doorway.

The lesson of proportion need not stop at windows and door-ways, it can be applied not merely to plans of apartments and heir heights, but to the art of composition itself. For example, Prof. Fletcher might have shown that into his first illustration of breaking up a plain building front into parts proportion enters. If, for example, we take a long, straight facade, perfectly flat of blank wall, or with windows in it, equally distributed, we may have a proportion that offends by its length and monotony. But brewk it up by projecting or recessing certain harts, say the two extreme ends and a wide centre, and the proportion of the whole s greatly improved, for although not an inch (if height has been added the eye is arrested by the three individual parts into which he whole facade has been divided, and the extreme length, being broken by oblongs of the contrary direction, is rendered less fatiguing g to the eye. By further dividing, or by making vertical lines, the proportions may be still more altered. The effect mainly is to the fact that the eye attends to the smaller individual parts instead of the whole. To take a concrete case a continuous barrack from looks much longer that an equal length f houses forming a street of the same height, because each separate house being an upright oblong, arrests the eye, and the number of stories forms a scale to its real height. In design,

then, the value of proportion is in composing the individual parts or subdivisions by giving them the proper ratio of height to width, amid so drawing the eye from the proportion of the whole mass to that (If the individual pats. What better illustration of this can lie found than in towers ? We constantly hear people talk of the proportion it is either said to lie squat or too tall, referring unconsciously to a standard in their mind's eye, from which they cannot get away. Thus for example, <building>St. Paul's Cathedral, London</building>done would look very squat after looking at a tower and spire like that of <building>Salisbury Cathedral</building>, and many towers would look too short after seeing the Boston Example. The proper proportion (If any particular tower can only lie judged hi)' the individual parts on stories of which it is composed It may look exceedingly tall and disproportioned if the belfry windows are small, and a mere repetition in every stage, but by subdividing the height into stories of unequal height, and by making the openings small here, and large there, the proportions will lie pronounced excellent. Therefore, proportion is not a matter of mass only, though, of course, we have to see our buildings through dense fogs sometimes, when they ought to look pleasing, but is chiefly to lie studied in the smaller parts of design. Bad proportion in a window, a door or a fire—place, will always lie an eye-sore in a room, however well proportioned it may be, the same want (if pleasing ratio will spoil a wall paper, the panelling of a door or dado or any ornament, though the eye in the hatter cases would have to be more educated. The ordinary semis of fitness in proportion is, however, pretty general and, roughly speaking, we may say, that it exists amongst people almost as strong as the sense of harmony or music. As a discordant note jars on the faculty of hearing so we find a glaring disproportion, or want of fitness, produces an unpleasant sensation on the mind.

Proportion is, however, not confined to) ratios anti dimensions; we experience its influence ill the right proportion of mass to detail, of plainness to ornament, and these are quite as necessary to learn by those who are studying artistic kinds of expression. The value of models or illustrations in the designs of carpets wall papers, decoration applied to furniture anti metal work is apparent. We often see patterns offensively obtrusive anti destructive, owing to the want of quiet surfaces or a due intermixture of ground and pattern; furniture full of unrest from twists and turns anti carvings that distract rather than please because the artist has not realized a sense of proportion between the plain parts and the ornament. These are things that can be taught by showing how much ornament can be placed On one part without overloading it what surfaces or members should lie plain, and which may lie enriched. The whole question of ornament t is one of " more or less.'' The amount of ornament (In a surface must indeed be in inverse ratio to the height of relief. Thus every square quarter inch] on a Benares brass bowl may lie occupied with incised ornament without offence to tile eye fur the lines are narrow and the relief exceedingly low hut in reposes work (if massive relief in tile same metal, anything beyond a simple device broadly treated is felt instinctively to lie intolerably coarse. To teach applied design on rational principles, the student is in need not merely of examples in the art he is studying but of demonstrations or models that will show him the moist agreeable combinations. He should not lie taught to copy furniture and decoration of various masters and styles, but lie taught to realize for himself the dime proportion between structures and forms of the plainest and most direct kind and the ornament that should accompany them. It is in these more extended ways we may learn the values of proportion in the arts of design, and not merely in regard to the heights and widths amid openings, the

proportions of columns and entablatures, anti of apartments, which appear to be the only kinds of proportions that are recognized live the Classic revivalists



<article title=" MAKING BLUE PRINTS " author="">MAKING BLUE PRINTS.

According to the Brickmaker the following formula can be used fur preparing a quantity of blue print paper at once and which can be laid aside to lie used as wanted: Mix in one bottle a solution of two and one-quarter ounces of water to each ounce of citrate of iron and ammonia, and in another one ounce of red pressure of potash to each eight ounces of water these solutions if well corked will keep indefinitely. To use, mix one part of the rum] solution with two parts of the potash just before using, and with a soft sponge flow over the surface of the paper a heavy coat and remove the superfluous liquid, stroking in one direction dry the paper quickly anti hang it in the dark. When dry it will keep well in a dark box, and will make clear, bright prints.

