<doctype type="text">CANADIAN  ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



fifty miles from Toronto. A young business man wanted to build a stable. He said, "I could not understand house architecture—that beat me, but I knew all about stables and horses, so I laid out the floor plans myself; got a young fellow in an architect's office, who lived handy, took him around to all the stables—that door, I got on street, that gable on another, and those windows on another; then I had him around to the house every night, and we got up the prettiest stable in the city."



<article title="architectural education in england" author="">



THE address of the President of the <assoc>R. I. B. A</assoc>. at the opening meeting of the fifty-seventh session, was a most interesting dissertation on subjects of vital importance to the profession, and coming from such an acknowledged master, should be received with marked attention by architects in all lands. The following remarks of <person>Mr. Waterhouse </person>are of interest in the light of the steps now being taken by the <assoc>Ontario Association </assoc>in the matter of students' examinations. He said, "Since the commencement of last session the new system of progressive examinations has come into operation. Two preliminary examinations for candidates, qualifying as "probationers," have been held in various centres, 169 students presenting themselves ; of these, 62 have been declared exempt, and 77 have passed the examination, making a total of 139 who are qualified, in due time, to come up for the intermediate examination, which will be held for the first time this month. In addition 54 gentlemen have passed the qualifying examination in Architecture, entitling them to become candidates for Associateship. If a man is to take a creditable position as an architect in the future, he must begin by passing these examinations. It seems to me as essential, at the present day, to have passed them as it was in former years to have spent a certain period in an architect's office as a pupil. I do not say that both courses are not desirable, even necessary ; but it will soon be found that the passing of these examinations is a sine qua non."

<person>Mr. Waterhouse's </person>reply to a suppositional question as to how the early days of one who intends to study architecture as a calling should be spent to the best advantage was as follows, and we cannot do it justice without quoting in full

He should have received in his schooldays some preliminary training of a scientific as well as of an artistic character. He should learn early to understand and appreciate the beauties of a fine building—of the civic and domestic edifices, the grand cathedrals and churches, the noble streets and open spaces, with which many a city in this country is endowed. He should be taken to museums of "comparative sculpture" such as the initiative of <person>Violet-le-Duc </person>created in the Trocadero, and, in default of similarly arranged educational institutions at home, to the sculpture galleries of the British and South Kensington Museums. In fine, he should, in his early, pliable days, be shown the works—or casts or drawings of the works

—of the great architects of various countries, and thereby acquire an insight into the magnitude, the nobility of the career upon which be is about to enter. At the same time, his ordinary education should not be neglected. He must pass the matriculation examination of a university, or the local examination conducted under the authority of a university, or be must obtain some testimonials of proficiency granted by well-known educational bodies. Then, armed with such letters of introduction, be should come to the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects</assoc> where be will be cordially received ; and thereupon, after the necessary inquiries as to his certificates and after examination of his powers of draughtmanship, be will be admitted a probationer. His next proceeding is to be articled, say for three years, to some practicing architect on the conditions suggested in the form of articles which has recently been published, a most important item of which states that 'with the object of enabling the pupil to qualify himself for passing the examinations of students and Associateship of the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects</assoc>, he, the principal, shall and will allow the pupil such absence as he, the principal, shall deem reasonable for the purpose of attending lectures, classes of instruction, and the said examinations.' During the term of his articles the pupil, or rather the probationer to whom I am alluding, will have to prepare the "testimonies of study,' which be has to submit to the Board of Examiners before be can be admitted to the intermediate examination; and to assist him in the preparation of these testimonies" in London be will, if properly advised, become a member of the Architectural Association, attend its classes, periodical visits to buildings, etc., and thus mix with others engaged in a similar course of study. During all this period the Reference Library of the Institute is open to him, and be can borrow books not only from the Lending Library of the Association, but also from that of the Institute. At the end of his articles be passes the intermediate examination, is qualified as a student of the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects, and his name and address are inserted in the register of members of the Institute, and published in our </assoc>Calendar. He afterwards competes for the prizes offered by the Association, and then for those offered by the Institute. He gains a

prize, perhaps a studentship, which enables him to travel in France or Italy, or even as far as Greece. He returns to England, enters an office as assistant, prepares his probationary work for the final examination to qualify for candidature as Associate ; be passes the examination and is registered Associate. I confess that this record of the younger days of an architectural student seems to me a fairly complete one. No President of this Institute, forty or even twenty years ago, could have told a similar tale. Possibly, in a not distant future, we may find it better to use a course of instruction somewhat analogous, let us say, to that pursued by <person>Professor Ware </person>in New York, as a preparation for entering an architect's office, than that theoretical instruction of the sort just indicated should go on pari passu with pupil-age. For a pupil to reap the full benefit of his time in an office, be should as soon as possible find himself set to practical work, and work of this sort in a busy age can hardly wait for one who spends a considerable portion of his time in abstract study; indeed, this term of pupilage might be greatly shortened were it to follow rather than be contemporaneous with theoretic training."



"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" <article title=" COMPETITION

FOR A CITY HOUSE " author="">.

THE publisher of the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER invites competitive designs for a city house to cost not more than $4,000.

The house is to be erected by a young architect having an income of about $2,500 per annum and a family of three young children.

The house is to be placed on the south side of the street. The lot is 30 feet wide and the houses on either side are built up to within 2½ feet of the dividing line. they are at a uniform distance of 15 feet from the street line, and feet deep including wing, and of the same class as the one in competition.

In judging the designs the disposition of the various rooms with regard to convenience and especially direct sunlight will be taken into consideration. Good planning will receive higher marks than good elevations, i.e., a good plan having poor elevations, compared with a good elevation set up from a poor plan.

The city bylaws will not permit of wooden construction below level of first floor, while above that it must be either plastered or tiled.

The heating will be by hot air and position of registers should be indicated.

Each competitor will be required to give a concise description of his design, stating the materials he proposes should be used in its construction.

The first premium will be $15; second $5 ; third one year's subscription to CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. A premium of $5 will also be given for the best perspective sent in.

Drawings must be made on sheets of heavy white paper or bristol board 14X 20 inches in size, and must be drawn sufficiently coarse to allow of their being reduced to one-half the above size. Drawings must be made in firm, strong lines, with pen and black ink. No color or brush work will be allowed. Each drawing must be marked with the nom de plume of its author, and the author's name, nom de plume and full address, enclosed in sealed envelope, must accompany each drawing sent in.

Drawings must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, 14 King street west, Toronto, not later than the 5th day of February next.

The right is reserved of publishing any design sent in. All designs will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

The decision as to the respective merits of the designs submitted will be made by a committee appointed by the <assoc>Architectural Guild of Toronto</assoc>.

All architects practicing in cities are debarred from this competition.



<article title=" PUBLICATIONS" author="">

The most beautiful frontispiece ever produced in an American magazine, appears in the January number of the Cosmopolitan, It is a reproduction in colors of <person>Francois Flameng</person>famous picture The Cake Seller," and can scarcely be distinguished from the imported photogravure which is exhibited in the dealers windows, at the price of $7 a copy. It is one of the most charming of subjects, and is well worth framing and preservation. The Cosmopolitan has become noted of late for its frontispieces and this very much excels its previous efforts.



<article title=" PRESENTATION " author="">.

THE annual meeting of the Architectural Guild of Toronto was held in connection with the usual monthly dinner at Webb's on Thursday last. Mr. <person>S. Frank Wickson </person>was elected Secretary, and <firm>Messrs. Langton and Townsend</firm>, Executive Committee.

After the election of officers a very pleasing event occurred in the presentation to the retiring Secretary, Mr. <person>S. G. Curry</person>, of a beautiful repeating clock and an ivory rule, both suitably inscribed. The presentation was made by Mr. <person>Storm</person>, who referred in terms of warmest praise to the work of Mr. <person>Curry</person> in the organization of the Guild, and his indefatigable efforts in its interests for over three years since its inception. Mr. Curry replied, thanking the Guild in feeling terms, referring to the progress that had been made in architectural societies and organizations, and in the observance of professional ethics during the comparatively short period of the existence of the Guild.

