<doctype type="text"> 94   THE  CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 	October 1891



judges of design whose ability and fairness would not constantly be called in question, and equally difficult if such authorities did exist, to obtain their consent to OCCUPY a position which would subject them to the ill-will of fellow citizens.



THE Inland Architect is of the opinion that "the enforcement of safe building can only be done by making owners, architects, and contractors criminally liable for accidents which result from a violation of the principles of sound construction broadly laid down in a general building act. A few prosecutions of this nature vigorously carried out would do more for safe building than any number of inspectors it would be possible to employ, and would besides create a most healthy public sentiment on the subject. " More than this, it would prove a strong incentive to architects and builders to possess themselves of the knowledge required to enable them to know when they were building safely. It is to be feared that under present conditions, guesswork too frequently takes the place of exact knowledge, and so long as no responsibility attaches to the results of ignorance, there will always be those who will refuse to take the trouble to gain the information which would fit them to properly fulfil their duties. The Ontario and Quebec Architects Acts provide for the proper education of architectural students in future, but in the case of the builder, no such standard of proficiency seems likely to be

required.	_________________________





WITHOUT reflecting upon the faithfulness to duty of the Inspector of Buildings for the city of Toronto, it should he declared that the inspection is a farce. Under present conditions it could be nothing else. During the present year the building restrictions which formerly applied only to the central districts, have been extended so as to cover the whole city. Notwithstanding that the area covered by the by-law has thus been doubled, the Building Inspector is still expected single-handed to see that its provisions are complied with .Not only so, but he is saddled with other duties as well. The proper inspection of buildings in a large and rapidly growing city like Toronto, is in itself beyond the ability of a single individual to properly perform. As a result, the building by-law is being violated in all directions. There is great need for the placing of this important branch of the civic service on a more satisfactory footing. Owing to the resignation of the City Engineer, the organization scheme which it was that gentleman's intention shortly to submit for the consideration of the Board of Works will not be likely to see the light. It is desirable, however, that a substitute for it should be formulated before the opening of the building season of 1892.



THE architects of Toronto should take a firm and united stand in favor of an improvement in the quality of the brick manufactured for use in that city. The brick at present supplied is to a large extent lacking in hardness and evenness of quality. For work of any importance the brick must be selected, and some one detailed by the architect to examine every load as it is delivered to see that the standard is being maintained. In instances where this precaution was not observed, it was discovered that there had been sandwiched in between every two or three toads of brick of the required quality, a load of the soft variety. This lack of uniformity in quality is due to the fact that the brick are burned in temporary kilns, through the uncemented joints of which much of the heat evaporates. In New York, where the brick is uniformly hard, manufacturers erect permanent kilns, such as are used in this country by the makers of pressed brick. This method should be adopted by large manufacturers in the vicinity of Canadian cities. Their claim that they cannot afford the expense involved in the erection of permanent kilns is not well founded. The extra price they would receive for first-class material added to the expense of erecting and pulling down temporary kilns two or three times each season, would in a short time recoup them for the required outlay. It is not likely, however, that any improvement will be effected until architects absolutely refuse to accept any but the best material.



THE Department of Architecture in connection with the School of Practical Science, Toronto, under the direction of <person>Prof. C. H. Wright</person>, is entering under favorable auspices upon the work of the second year of its existence. There are nine students in

attendance as compared with five last year. Five of these are entering upon their course, three are in their second year, and Mr. <person>C. E. Langley</person>, of Toronto, having qualified himself by extra study, has passed into his third year. The results of the first year s work are regarded as being satisfactory, and the increased attendance gives encouragement for the future. The vacation work of the students hears evidence to the satisfactory character of the instruction imparted to them during their first year of study in this department. Mr. <person>H. F. Ballantyne </person>won the first year prize, presented by Mr. <person>D. B. Dick </person>for general proficiency in the first year in the Architectural Department. There are three good drawing rooms, capable of accommodating sixty students, and another is shortly to be added, together with private rooms for the professor, carpenter shop, model room, photographic studio and cement testing room. The lecture room will accommodate one hundred students. There is an excellent library containing many of the standard works on architecture, the sketches of the <assoc>Boston Sketching Club</assoc>, several useful volumes, remnants from the library of the <assoc>Board of Architecture and Manufactures of Upper Canada</assoc>, and the leading professional papers of Europe and America. The sum of $500 was spent on the purchase of architectural books last year. The intention this year is to exceed this sum by some $200. In addition to the library there is a department containing some 1,600 architectural photographs, ranging from ancient Egyptian to modern Gothic and ecclesiastical work. It is the intention by the aid of a stereopticon to enable the students to study these examples to the best advantage. The members of the architectural profession will watch the progress of the work in this department with the deepest interest and a desire to see its administration marked by the wisdom and liberality which will insure its continued prosperity, as well as the proper education of the succeeding generation of architects.



THE system of constructing public works by day labor instead of by contract, introduced in Toronto about two years ago, caught the popular fancy. The daily press strongly supported the new departure, and congratulated the citizens upon their escape from the power of unscrupulous contractors to rob them of their hard-earned contributions to the civic treasury. The opinion was expressed in these columns that the system would not prove as satisfactory as its advocates anticipated. Letters were obtained and published from the city engineers of leading American cities showing that in all of them the system of constructing public works under contract prevailed, and was regarded as being most satisfactory. An experience of two years has demonstrated the correctness of this position. One of the daily papers which most strongly supported the day labor method when first introduced, remarked the other day " It is not clear that the city gets better work, and it is certain that the day labor method is more expensive than the contract system. The work is now being submitted to the test of a financial comparison with the results of the contract system, and reports indicate that for material and workmanship, sewers and roadways constructed by day labor do not compare too favorably with works done by contract under strict supervision." In support of this view, a jury a few days since awarded damages to the amount of $1,800 to a workman who brought suit against the corporation for compensation for injuries sustained while in the city's employ owing to the attempt to do work too cheaply by omitting to provide necessary safeguards for the lives of workmen. While admitting that many contractors are not what they should he in the matter of honest dealing, it is unfair to include all, or even a majority of them, in this category, and a proper system of inspection should be sufficient in all cases to guarantee the fulfillment of the contract in accordance with the specifications. There can be no doubt that the experience gained by contractors who have been engaged for years on public works, coupled with the personal interests they have at stake, will enable them to perform such works at a minimum of cost which it is impossible for the city by the day labor method to achieve.



IT is to be regretted that a conflict of authority should have arisen between the City Council of Toronto and Mr. <person>W. T. Jennings</person>, City Engineer, resulting in the latter's resignation. It is admitted on all sides that Mr. Jennings has given the city good service. The point in dispute was whether the Council,

