<doctype type="text"> hung at top with 3 in. butts, and to be furnished with iron water-bars, 4 in. barrel bolts and hooks to hold them open. Cold air inlet to be protected with stout wire having in. mesh and well secured. Fuel doors to have 2 in. oak sills, to be 1 3/4 in. paneled and prepared with stops for glazing, hung at top and furnished with hooks and 6 in. bolts. The whole of the windows above cellar (except where otherwise specified) to have proper boxed frames 2 in. double sunk sills, outside hangings stiles, 1 3/4 in. moulded sashes hung with the best sash cord over the best iron axle pulleys. Front drawing room window to have boxed heart, fixed fanlight, moulded transom as shown. Four (4) windows on front elevation to have 2 3/8 in. sashes with stops in preparation for plate glass. Windows to be fastened with approved fasteners of the value of $4.50 per doz., and furnished with best bronze window lifts. Bed room windows, first floor, front elevation, to have simple moulded pilasters, sills, heads and transoms as shown, fanlights to be fixed and prepared with stops for lead glazing. Short window at first main stair landing, and that in linen closet, to have solid rebated frames, with stops for lead work. Windows in coat closet under main stairs, and side windows in attic to have casement sash with drip and water bar, properly hinged, to have knobs, and secured with brass bolts. Dormers to be according to details and to have casement sash with drip and water bar, to be properly hung and fastened with spring catches and brass bolt. Fit to four windows in west elevation 1 3/8 in. outside venetian properly hung and fastened. Prepare four windows in front elevation for Wilier sliding blinds with all necessary stops, fillets, blocks, etc., complete That on ground floor will be made to slide in pockets, behind window back, and covered with hinged flap. Entrance door to have 6 in. X 4 in. rebated and moulded frame, 2 in. staff bead, and 2 in. rounded oak sill, door to be 2 3/8 in. oak veneered on outside, paneled and moulded and prepared with mouldings above for glazing, to be hung with three in. loose but bronze hinges, and furnished with hall door lock of the value of $4, and having 2 1/2 in. bronze knobs. Vestibule doors to be 2 1/8 in, paneled and moulded below, and prepared with mouldings above for glass, doors hung in rebated and moulded jambs with three pairs of in. loose butt bronze hinges, and furnished with 4 in. American rebate mortise locks, brass bolts, keys, bronze knobs and furniture, 9 in. bronze flush bolts, Back porch door to be 1 3/4 paneled and bead flush, hung on 6 in. x 3 in. related and chamfered jambs, having 2 in. oak sill, to be properly hung and furnished with Carpenters' rim lock, white furniture and 8 in. barrel bolts, hinged and bolted fanlight. Side porch door to be similar, but to have hall door lock of the value of $2, porcelain and plated furniture The doors to the two principal floors to be 1 3/4 paneled and moulded and hung to 1 1/4 in. rebated jabs. Doors to principal rooms, ground door, to be hung and furnished as specified for vestibule doors, those to first floor to he bong with 4 in. loose butt Berlin bronze binges and furnished with 4 in American mortise locks, brass bolts and keys, and porcelain and plated furniture. Sliding doors to have proper overhead track, and to be furnished with <person>Clarke</person>'s patent hangers, and with sliding door lock and flush handles. The other doors throughout (unless otherwise specified) to be 1 3/8 in. paneled and moulded, hung with in. loose bolts to in. loose jambs, and furnished with American mortise locks, brass bolts and porcelain and plated furniture, two doors in attic to have pivoted fanlights. Closet doors to be s moulded one side, furnished with locks and furniture to correspond with other doors. Doors marked swing" to be 1 3/8 in. thick hung with nickel plated, Chicago spring hinges. and furnished with porcelain finger plates, both sides, and brass bolts. Opening marked curtains" will not have doors but to be prepared for them, with rebated jambs, casings, etc. Doors in basement to be 1 1/8 in. batten in 1 1/8 in. jambs having stops planted on, hung with 4 in. buts, and furnished with rim locks and mineral furniture. Architraves on ground floor main building to 1)0 5½ in. double faced with band moulding. Architraves on first floor to be similar 4½ in. wide. Architraves in small rooms, passages, kitchen, attic, etc., to be 4 in. moulded with plain chamfered blocks. Put 2½ in. picture mould at spring of cove in drawing room. Windows, except those to two principal rooms, ground floor, to have 1 in. moulded window boards, bed moulds and moulded aprons. Windows of drawing and dining rooms to have paneled and moulded window backs. Front steps to have turned newels, moulded rail and balustrade as shown, treads to be 1 3/4 in. and slatted, Kitchen pantry to he fitted up with six tiers of 1 in. dressed and beaded shelving supported on proper bearings. Fit up dressers in kitchen and service pantry, having 1 1/2 in. paneled and moulded doors, properly hung and fastened, 7/8 in. beaded shelving—lower portion to be wider and to have drawers and cupboards below, having properly hinged and fastened doors, all according to detail; top of wider portion of dresser will be flush with top of sink, and to be of hardwood grooved for drainer, Bed room closets to have beaded shelves as shown, in. beaded rail and strong bronzed metal hooks, 9 in. apart. Provide 30 feel of beaded rail with hooks 9 in. apart, to be placed where directed, also 100 feet of shelving on bearers, all in addition to that specified for closets. Hanging shelf in larder to be of 1 3/8 in. stuff, suspended from ceiling with four ½ in. wrought iron rods. Fit up two tiers of 1 ½ in. shelving at each end of larder on proper supports. Linen closet to have wide shelves six in height, at ends, and enclose those at one end with hinged cedar fronts, fastened with spring catches. The steps in back porch to be of pine 1 3/4 in, treads, 1 in. risers, 2 in, strings, rounded rail, bar balusters and chamfered newels. Fit up stands for kitchen and cellar sinks with hardwood capping. Do all necessary attendance and fitting for bath, basin and water closets (not including plumbers' work). Case plumbers' work where required with narrow sheeting hinged and bolted at front. The capping of bath and lids and seats of w, c. 's to be of cherry, the latter supported on moulded brackets w. c. 's to have double lids for slop sink. Front of bath to be of same sheeting as specified for room; paneled, hinged and bolted doors to front of basin. Provide all necessary boxing and beaded runs to pipes; do any necessary cutting for plumber. W. c. in cellar to be enclosed with sheeting, and batten door, and hung and furnished as other basement doors. Door to be kept 6 in. from floor and ceiling. Borrowed light as shown. Put 2 in, planking in yard at doorway as shown, on 4 in. x 4 in. cedar sleepers. Form slatted walks as shown with 2 in. x 2½ in. dressed stuff, dressed three sides, on 4 in. x 3 10. cedar sleepers; put rounded curb at edges of that to main entrance. Put side gate as shown, formed with narrow pickets, and strong framing, hung with strong T hinges and furnished with wrought iron thumb latch, bolt and padlock, dressed and rounded cedar posts, footed, and having chamfered head piece. Erect short piece of picket fence 6 feet high on south side to harmonize with gate, also a short piece on north side of porch. Fuel bins to be constructed of 2 in. horizontal planking, strongly nailed to 4 in x 4 in. posts extending from floor to ceiling; the front to be made to slide in grooves for removal if necessary. Construct cold and fresh air ducts of dry 1 in. matched stuff with hinged valve, which will close inlet from floor when opening that from outside. Carpenter to attend on other trades in the execution and for the perfect completion of the work.



<article title=" SLATER " author="">SLATER.

Line valleys with galvanized iron 15 in. wide, increasing ho 18 in. near foot. Joints to be soldered where in danger of snow backing up water and to have 4 in. lap in other places. Cover ridges, etc., with No. 28 iron.

Step and cloak flash against all walls, chimneys and cheeks and apron of dormer. Pot strip of galvanized iron 5 in. wide, 3 in. on roof anti 2 in. drip over back of gutter, well secured. Cover flat of cornice over three windows on first floor with galvanized iron, lapped, tacked and soldered, and turned up 6 in, behind tiling. Cover the sloping roof, including back porch and cheeks of dormer, with best quality of Canadian roofing slate from the Rockland quarries of about 20 in. x 11 in. size, and having double courses at eaves, Slates to be laid on heavy felt provided and laid by Slater. All exposed portions of dormer to be carefully covered with felt well lapped. Cover east and south gables as shown with Dancy's, Ontario, or other equally approved tiles, of good rich, dark red color, well secured to walls, and laid on heavy felt, well lapped and tacked.



<article title=" TINSMITH " author="">TINSMITH.



Put 4 in. eave troughs of galvanized iron to eaves of back porch, and in, do, to eaves of house of No. 28 gauge iron, Gutters to be stiffened with 7-16 in. x 7-16 in. wrote iron bars and well secured to rafters, and to have backs carried up to slates. Put three (3) stacks of in. octagon down pipes to house and one 3 in. to back porch, all to be of the very best iron No. 28 gauge, approved brand, properly connected with gutters, secured to walls with iron holdfasts, and extending to surface of ground and there connected with drain pipes with proper caps to pipes. Carry 3 in. down pipes front gutters on south gable to main eaves.



<article title=" PLUMBER AND GAS FITTER " author="">PLUMBER AND GAS FITTER.

Lay on through house best tested iron piping, beginning with 1 1/4 in. at meter, and connected with various points marked on plans with letters P for pendants and B for brackets, nipples left capped ready for fixtures. Pipes to diminish according to position to in., 3/4 in. and ½ in., all to be thoroughly tested. Drop lights to be taken out of the side of supplies anti all supplies to brackets to rise from supply below, and in no case to drop from pipes overhead, Lay on separate supply from separate meter, to two fire-places on ground floor and to gas-stove in kitchen, beginning with 3/4 in. and diminishing to ½ in. Provide cocks with keys at fire-places. Lay on water to sinks, bath, basin and water closets with ½ in. 6 lbs. lead supply. Service from street line to line of branches to fixtures to be 5/8 it. 8 lbs. lead. Provide hose connection at window of furnace room, with key cock, and provide stop and waste cock near floor, Put 3/4 in, brass stop and waste cock immediately inside wall of house, and all pipes to he graded to this point. Fit tip in bath room num. No. 14 gauge, inner and planished copper bath 6 ft. long. with ½ in. 6 lbs. head, hot and cold supply, and beat heavy plated <person>Fuller</person> double bath cocks, plated rose and 1 1/2 in. overflow, ½ in. waste, <person>Dubois</person> trap. and brass trap screw, and plated plug and chain. Wash basin of best marbled earthenware, oval, and having Motts standing waste, 1 3/4 in. counter sunk marble top, 1 in. back and end, 12 in. high, heavy plated Fuller cocks, 1/2 in. hot and cold lead supply and 1 1/2 it, lead waste, Dubois trap and brass tap screw. Basin to be attached to marble hop by means of brass clamps. Provide and fit up on first floor an all porcelain flushing rim wash-out closet, equal in value to the Inodoro or Unitas, with lead lined tank, having brackets, valves, supply, overflow, ball cock, &c., complete. Provide porcelain drip tray. Soil pipe to be in, of cast iron carried from drain 2 feet beyond wall to 4 feet above roof at point of exit and to down pipes at surface of ground, to be coated both sides with coal tar and joints carefully caulked with about and lead. Dig for these pipes and replace earth properly leveled, and cart away surplus if any. Pipe to be of weight called for in city by-law. Provide all necessary traps, and hand-boles, with brass cleaning screws as shown, Foot of soil pipe will he supported on brick pier built by mason. Carry 2 in. east iron waste from kitchen sink along ceiling of cellar to main soil pipe, supported on wrote iron bangers. Carry a 3 in. east iron vent pipe from basement closet connecting to soil pipe abuse highest fixture (in bath room), and leave connections for vents from the various traps as required. The 4 in. soil pipe to he enlarged to 6 in, above roof line, and to have opened mouthed top. Carefully flash on to roof with 16 oz. copper. into hub which must be kept clear of roof. W. c. in basement to be a flushing rim, cane ware wash out with in. trap, syphon, cistern, etc., complete. Ventilate from seat to special flue in laundry with 3 in. galvanized iron pipe. Put a 7 in. diameter enameled valve register in vent floe near ceiling of bathroom. Put a in. x 12 in. enameled valve register near ceiling of kitchen into vent flue, Ventilate drain by means of a in. cast iron pipe connected to drain and carried 2½ feet above finished ground line with return bend top. Put under bath and wash basin on first floor proper safes of lbs. lead with 3/4 in. waste, with brass flap valve on the same emptying over kitchen sink, Carry proper safes under all pipes crossing ceilings. Safe under w.c on first finer to be of marble, 1 3/4 in. thick and cotter sunk; put brass strainer on outlet of waste and connect to other safe washes. Fit up in kitchen beat galvanized iron sink 2 ft. 6 in. long, with brackets and enameled back and having 1 1/2 in. heavy lead waste with Dubois trap, and brass trap screws and hot and cold supply of 1/2 in. lead pipe with brass Fuller cocks, Fit sip in kitchen at back of stove on proper stand a heavy galvanized iron round topped cylinder of 40 gallons capacity. with 5/8 in. heavy lead hot and cold supply, 3/4 in, brass connections with stove in kitchen with shut-off cock connect to stove with 1 in, iron pipe. Cylinder to have ½ in. sediment pipe and cock at bottom ; also place 3/4 in. stop cock on supply pipe. Boiler to be supplied from pressure; provide combined safe and vacuum valve. I-it tip small east iron sink in cellar, having 1 1/2 in. lead waste, trapped and supplied as other sink. Overflow pipe from basin and bath to be branched into dip of traps from same, Make all necessary Y branches for work as required, all waste pipes to have vents of 1 1/2 in. and a in. lead pipe, carried into 3 in. pipe before mentioned. Vents for w. c, 'a to be in. diameter. Provide and fix from hall near head of main stairs to kitchen a proper tin speaking tube, with silver plated mouth pieces, etc., complete. All to be left complete and perfect in every particular. All work to he in conformity with city by-laws.

<article title=" PLASTERER " author="">PLASTERER.



Inner face of all outside walls, including attic, to be well rendered with best hair mortar after being built and before battening is executed, and make thoroughly tight also beta-eon all joists, etc., entering therein, also about all door and window frames. Floors at gable in attic to be deafened with mortar 1 1/2 in, thick. Lath the partitions. ceilings, sophist of stairs and other places prepared for lathing, with the best sawn pint' laths, in. wide for ceilings and 1 1/4 in. for walls, 5-16 in. apart, ends butted and joints broken every 18 in. Outer walls will be battened for lathing. Porch will not be plastered. Plastering to be of the best two coat work bath white finish. The ceilings of cellars throughout to have two coats hard white finish. The first coat of plaster in all eases to be continued behind skirting, trimmings, etc. Form slightly rounded corners to all projecting angles to principal rooms and ball on ground and first floors. Simple cove in drawing room springing from wooden picture mould. Plaster cornice in dining room to be 24 in. girth, in hall 20 in,' and its vestibule 15 in. Put 2 1/2 ft. moulded centres to dining and drawing rooms, and 18 it. diameter to hall, Form simple moulded beams in ground and first floors as shown by dotted lines. Twice lime whiten walls oh cellars. The whole to lie executed with the best description of material and workmanship, and to be

