<doctype type="text">left sound and perfect after making good after other trades. Plasterer to remove rubbish and broom out floors on completion. Leave woodwork clean and ready for painter.



<article title=" PAINTER AND GLAZIER " author="">PAINTER AND GLAZIER.



The whole of the internal and external dressed woodwork usually painted and except where otherwise specified, including outside steps and slatted walks, and dressed fence and gate to be painted three coats of white lead and linseed oil paint of approved tints. The work to be properly knotted and stopped, and well rubbed down after first and second coats. The woodwork of ground and first floors to be stained, oiled and twice varnished with best copal varnish, Treads and risers of main and back stairs to be stained and twice oiled. No inside blinds to be included in tender. Outside venetians to four rear windows to be painted three coats after priming. The visible galvanized iron work to be painted three coats. Except where otherwise specified, the whole of the windows and fanlights, glass doors, etc. to be glazed with double diamond star glass, selected free from flaws and defects, to be well puttied and back puttied, and braided, the whole of the sashes to be primed before glazing. Glaze four windows on east elevation with 1/4 in. polished plate glass, and the small square lights of east windows in attic with rolled cathedral glass of selected tints. The glass in fuel doors to be 1/8 in. rough rolled plate secured with stops. Other glass in cellar to be diamond star. The two windows at staircase landings and fanlights of four windows in east elevation to be glazed with stained glass provided by proprietor. Glass in vestibule doors will be provided by proprietor. Glass in entrance door to in. be polished plate, beveled. Glass in fanlights as marked to he ground; glaze borrowed light in basement w. c. with ground diamond star glass. Clean windows, scrub floors before and after painting, and leave all clean and perfect on completion. Put in sashes whom directed, and do any necessary re-glazing required.



<article title=" EXCAVATION, DRAINAGE, ETC." author="">EXCAVATION, DRAINAGE, ETC.

	$	c.

325 cubic yards of excavation, includes filling, leveling, etc. and

	carting away surplus earth	-	- -	- 

6 lineal yards of 6 in. vitrified tile drains, complete

 lineal yards of 4 in. vitrified fresh air inlet, complete - 36 1/3 lineal yards of 3 in. tile weeping drains - - <person>McGuire</person>s cleaning out trap, and stone flag covering, complete NOTE. —Excavations are measured cube." that is, length, breadth and

depth, thus: 54 ft. 9 in. X 22 ft. 6 in. X5 ft. 6 in=equal to 6775 ft. in. divided by 27, the number of feet in a cubic yard, gives 251 cubic yards, less (1 ft. 8 in.). Tile drains are measured lineal, that is, running measure, as indicated in above items.



<article title=" MASONRY AND CUT STONE " author="">MASONRY AND CUT STONE.

$ c.

29 toise of masonry (86 ft. cube English measure) in foundation walls, (pargetted in cement outside) - -

168 ft. in supl. ft. Credit Valley cut stone base, inch draft and

	chiseled to jambs, complete	- -	- 

 Credit Valley stone sills, fine buchard, to cellar windows, ft. 9 in. X 9 in. x 6 in., weathered - . 1 Credit Valley stone sill, fine buchard. to cellar window, ft. 

in.	X 9 in. x 6 in., weathered - - - Credit Valley stone sill, fine buchard, to cellar window, 2 ft.

9 in. X 9 in. x 6 in., weathered - - - portage entry stone sill, chiseled, to front window, 7 ft. 6 in. x 11

	in, x 9 in., weathered and seated	-	-	-

portage entry stone sill, chiseled, north window, 4 ft. 9 in. x 11

	in. x 6 in., weathered and seated	-	-	- 

2 portage entry stone sills, chiseled, north and south windows,  ft. o in. x 11 in. x 6 in., weathered and seated - -

7 portage entry stone sills, chiseled, north and south windows, ft.

9 in. x 11 in. x 6 in., weathered and seated . -portage entry stone sill, chiseled, north and south window, ft.

	6 in. x 11 in. x 6 in., weathered and seated	-	.	-

portage entry stone sill, chiseled, south window, 2 ft. 9 in. x 11

	in.	x 6 in., weathered and seated	- -	- 

3 portage entry stone sills, chiseled, 2 ft. 0 in. x 11 in. x 6 in.,

	weathered and seated	- -	- 

3 Ohio stone sill, chiseled, rear windows, ft. o in. x 11 in. x 6

	in., weathered and seated	-	- - - 

	Ohio stone sill, chiseled,	ft. o in. x 11 in. x 6 in., weathered

	and seated	-	.	- -	-

2 brown stone fine <person>Bouchard</person> heads to fuel doors, 3 ft. o in. x 9 in. x 9 in, checked for frames - - portage entry stone head to front doors, ft. a in. x 13 in. X 14

	in., chiseled and with curved sunk	face		-	.		-

2 portage entry corbels, curved face. 2 ft. o in. X 9 in. x 10 in., temporary protected with boards - . Bedding to frames, lintels, etc. - - - - NOTE—Masonry is measured cube and the totals of dimensions added

together, divided by 86, the number of cubic feet in a toise. The French measure per toise being 6 ft. x 6 ft. X 2 ft., equivalent to 6 ft. 4 1/2 in. x 6 ft. 4 1/2 in. x 2 ft. 1 1/2 in. English measure, the French foot being 3/4 of an inch

longer than one foot English. Cut stone is measured superficial, that is, square, thus: 20 ft. X 20 ft. gives 400 superficial feet. Sills, heads. steps, etc., are counted and the number even according to sizes and quality of work, as shown in above items of quantities.



BRICKWORK.

$ c.

7,648 hard clinker brick in cellar walls -	 . -

37,725 best hard common brick . -	- -

18,889 best Carlton facing brick, cleaned down with	acid	-

1,375 white brick, inside porch - - -

252 lineal feet of bevel and projecting bricks, labels,	strings,	etc.

16 lineal feet of curved labels, strings, etc. -	 - -

77 lineal ft. of 2 rows slate on footing'; of brick walls,	20 in.	wide

100 lineal ft. of hoop iron for ties . -	- -

24 relieving arches - - . - -

6 curved arches (semi-circular and elliptic) -	 - -

4 fireplace arches on 2 1/2 in. x in. iron camber	bars - -

 brick trimmer arches in concrete, to hearths -	  - -

8 circular flues (built round moulds) to chimneys	- -

4 wrought iron forked straps, 2 X in., and spikes	 - -

7 galvanized iron collars to flues - -	- -

 iron soot doors and frames to ash dumps and flues	 - -

2 openings to vent flue, kitchen and bath room near	ceiling	-

3 chimney caps of projecting brick courses - Bricklayer to build in strips for battens in outer walls and where

directed, beam filling to floors and roof timbers, bed bond timbers, lintels, plates, wood bricks, frames, &c., and attendance

	 on other trades	-	-	-	- 

Scaffolding on outside for brickwork (left for other trades)

105 square yards of concrete, 3 in. thick, and substratum 6 in.

	thick, broken stone chips	-	- -	- 

80 1/3 square yards of Portland cement and sand floated 1/2 in.

	thick	-	-	- 

Bedding, laundry and porch joists in cement	-	- 

NOTE--- Brickwork is measured cube and Montreal the number of bricks given in estimating, is 20 bricks to the cube foot, and is ascertained thus:

6 bricks long say 4' 0"

	9	high' 2, O"



8' 0" divisor.

	3 brick thick



8 162 20 to the foot.





The openings are measured and deducted from the solid work. Concrete when riot deep is measured by the superficial yard, thus 3 ft. x 3 ft. gives one yard. Concrete in heavy work is measured cube, ft. x 3 ft. X 3 ft., or 27 feet to the cubic yard. Arches, etc., are given in numbers and other items noted as above.





<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL TRAINING " author="Hutchison, A. C.">ARCHITECTURAL TRAINING.

By <person>A. C. HUTCHISON</person>, R.C.A.



THE following paper on the above subject was read by the author at a meeting of architects and students of architecture held in the rooms of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, Montreal, on Thursday, the 5th inst.:

I take it for granted that the object of architectural training is to properly qualify any person wishing to practice the profession of an architect by such a course of scientific and art instruction as will render him a competent architect. The question will at once arise, when can any architect be termed competent? I think the least that can be expected of any claiming to be competent is, that leaving aside any special skill that may be required in designing works of a monumental character or special technical knowledge required for designing a building for some novel or extraordinary use, he should be able to design a building for any ordinary purpose or situation so that its construction shall be safe and its appearance such that no violence shall be done to any canon of Art. For illustrating and working out of his design he should be able to prepare all the plans, elevations, sections, etc., as will make his intentions clear and to be understood by others. He should also be able to make a perspective drawing of any portion of his design, by which he can better illustrate his intentions to nonprofessionals who might not be able to appreciate them from the examination of geometrical drawings. He should also be able to prepare a specification in which the quality of materials, modes of construction and quality of workmanship are defined in such manner as to make his intentions clear to the workmen charged with the carrying of his design into execution. He should further be able to determine by an inspection of the work as it progresses whether his instructions are being carried out in a proper manner. To do this satisfactorily to himself and his client, he should by previous training be familiar with building materials and their use, and be able by a knowledge of construction to apply them in such manner that they are not wasted, and that his building is safe and perfectly able to fulfil the purpose for which it was intended. He should also have a knowledge of sanitary science, beating and ventilation, so that the building designed by him shall not only he comfortable to live in, but also free from anything prejudicial to health. In addition to this, he should have a general knowledge of the different styles of architecture, and such a definite knowledge of the styles or the style he adopts for his design as will enable him to apply it correctly.

I think it will be admitted that in the interests of the profession and of the public, a lower qualification than I have just indicated should not be entertained.

Before entering upon the question as to the character and scope of the scientific and art training necessary to qualify a pet son to become a competent architect and how such training can be obtained, let us briefly consider the position of the profession in the Dominion its relations to the public and to the training required to qualify as an architect.

Until the obtaining of Acts of Incorporation from the Provincial Legislature by the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> some eighteen months ago, and still more recently by <assoc>the Association of Architects for the Province of Quebec</assoc>, there was nothing to prevent anyone, whether qualified or not qualified, from practising as an architect. In both of these Acts provision has been made for passing examinations before entering upon the study of architecture, and before entering upon active practice as an architect. The first or preliminary examination required by these Acts is to determine whether the candidate wishing to study architecture is qualified by his previous education to enter upon such study; the second or final examination is to ascertain whether the candidate after completing his course of study has obtained such scientific and art knowledge as will qualify him to practice as an architect. As both of these examinations are of a compulsory character, it is evident that the question of architectural training necessary to qualify for such examinations is one of vital importance, especially to those who have already entered upon or propose to enter upon the study of architecture.

Heretofore and at the present time, the only means for obtain

