<doctype type="text">The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the Third Order, or that of the obtuse arch, obtained from the date at which the preceding was rejected, down to the sixteenth century. when the style itself was exploded; example, <building>Chapel of Henry the VII</building>.

Convinced that the terms applied by Mr. <person>Britton</person> are sufficiently appropriate and expressive, I have on the present occasion adopted his nomenclature. The arches used in this first class of English architecture were of narrow proportions, and sharply pointed. In large structures, - where -a second tier is introduced opening to the triforium, two or more arches are united under one, with trefoil or cinquefoil heads; and arches with the same kind of finishing sometimes occur in other parts of the building. The columns are slender, and are surrounded with detached shafts of marble united at the base; and each, according to <person>Mr. Bentham </person>having a capital richly adorned with foliage, which together in a cluster form one elegant capital for the whole pillar. It may be added that the capitals thus uniting under one head were not invariably adorned with rich foliage, but were sometimes conspicuous for simplicity of decoration. The windows are of a narrow oblong form, and pointed like a lancet, They are sometimes seen in one opening, forming a single light, in which mode they often occur in the chancels of small parochial churches, and may be presumed to indicate the earliest stage of this architectural class. But in edifices on which great labor has been bestowed, we find two, or as frequently three united together; the central being higher than those placed laterally, is the prevailing window in many of the noblest structures of the Third Henry's reign, where two or more of the arches are placed together under one larger arch. The vacant space between the heads is filled with a trefoil, quatrefoil, or cinquefoil.

Ecclesiastical structures displaying the Early English style of architecture, reign of Richard the I, from 1189 to 1199 —North side of the west transept of <building>Rochester Cathedral, Kent</building>; the <building>Chapel of the Holy Trinity</building> at Canterbury, Kent, which has windows in the lancet shape, appears to have been completed about the commencement of this reign; upper transept of <building>Lincoln Cathedral and Choir, Lincolnshire </building>. part of the nave and aisles of <building>Peterborough Cathedral, Northamptonshire</building>. Reign of John, from 1199 to 1216 Vestibule at the entrance, termed "The Galilee,' of Ely Cathedral, Cambridgeshire parts of the east end of <building>Winchester Cathedral, Hampshire</building>; remains of <building>Beaulieu Abbey</building>, Hampshire; choir and upper transept of Rochester Cathedral, Kent ; parts of the nave and central tower of <building>Lincoln Cathedral</building>. Reign of Henry the III, from 1216 to 1272 :—Presbytery of Ely Cathedral used as the choir, erected between the years 1235 and 1252, Cambridgeshire <building>; Westminster Abbey Church</building>, begun in 1245, completed as to the works of this reign, 1269; the tower and west front of <building>Wells Cathedral, Somersetshire</building>; <building>Salisbury Cathedral, Wiltshire </building>; this edifice is inestimable as an architectural specimen ; the two upper divisions of the tower and the lofty spire have been added since this Cathedral was begun in 1220, and finished, with the above exceptions, in 1258; the transept of <building>Worcester Cathedral, Worcestershire</building>; the south transept of York, Yorkshire, erected about 1228, and the north about 1260. It is believed that painted or stained glass for the use of church windows in England was introduced, or at least so frequently adopted as to constitute an era, about the time of Henry the III.

(To be Continued.)

I was very much disappointed in Fifth Avenue at first, as from what I had heard of it I had formed the highest expectations regarding it ; though at the same time it is a very fine street, and I will be able to give it somewhat of its true value when my first impressions of it wear oft, The street which has impressed me most. so far, in any place, was one which I saw in Cleveland, Ohio, two years ago (not Euclid Avenue) but perhaps in that case it was because I came on it unexpectedly. There the houses have the advantage of being back from the street a hundred feet or more, which greatly adds to their appearance.

A very peculiar thing to me, here, is the rock quarrying going on in several places in the city to lay the foundations of intended buildings, As a rule, they have a couple of boilers supplying steam to three or four rock drills, and strangest of all, the strata of the stone is almost perpendicular to the horizon, and the material appears to be nearly or altogether of granite. I saw the party wall of one ten storey apartment house built of this stuff, and adjacent to it they were building a foundation of the same material, and it was the most awful piece of rubble work I have ever seen or even heard of, The minimum thickness of the wall would be, I should say, nearly ft., and in some places the great stones they were piling up across the wall could not be less than ft. 6 in. long, and I think the one they were bedding on the wall (with a derrick) as I came along could not be many inches short of

4 ft. They were building it in cement mortar, and were very carefully filling in the cavities with small stone, but I supposed that this latter was because a man who appeared to be the owner or architect was watching them pretty closely, I think the wail was hardly as regular as this sketch, You can imagine my surprise at seeing this class of work here, especially as it was on Eighth Avenue, right against Central Park.

I have been helping the young man who is doing the drawings of a mission building they are putting up on 42nd street in this city, It is 6 stories in height and the floors fire-proof, with a gymnasium on the 5th floor. Mrs. <person>W. K. Vanderbilt </person>is paying for the work, and it is

 expected to cost about $250,000.

When the firm found out I could do a little with iron beams and columns, they left the iron work almost entirely in my hands,  and I have made3 or 4 sections of it (to 1/4 scale) as there is a little court to it, with beams of different levels on the same floor and bent ones for the gallery of one large room, and it makes it quite complicated in sonic parts for arranging for the fire-proofing.

It might be interesting to you ROUGH SKETCH OF ILL-PROPORTION. to know that the terra cotta (buff) cornice alone, as per sketch, some 75 ft. on front elevation with returns of about 25 and 10 ft. on the sides, will cost $4,000.



<article title=" ARCHITECTURE IN NEW YORK." author="">

A BRIGHT young student of architecture who recently left Toronto to pursue his professional studies in New York City, has lately written to a member of the firm in whose office he was here his first impressions of the architecture of that city. We have been privileged to make extracts from this letter, which are here presented to our readers in the belief that they will be found interesting and perhaps instructive:

'1 enjoyed myself strolling around several days after I got here, looking at the architecture. Several new buildings they have put up and are finishing here are very beautiful, though the material seems somewhat strange ; no doubt because it is new to me, They are built of buff colored brick (a good many similar to the Roman brick) and buff terra cotta of a very ornate character, and mostly with an Italian Renaissance feeling about them. <building>The Hotel Imperial </building>is one of the most notable ones of which I speak.

The buildings which I had been familiar with, by seeing them in the journals, look hardly so well in execution; but the detail as a rule seems fairly good all round—I think much better than at Chicago. In some of the buff buildings which I have mentioned (not in the Imperial) they seem to be making the detail remarkably fine—so small, in fact, especially in one large building. that it is almost fine enough for inside wood finish in a dwelling house.

Taking things altogether, I am more convinced than ever that what Canadian architects lack is not ability, but rather the opportunities which seem to so surround their American brethren. I have several times analyzed some of the buildings here which are of a very attractive character at first sight, and which do not seem to decrease in value on examination, and I think there is not any better proportion or profile of moldings than what I have been quite used to in Toronto ; but I think it is the addition to this of a free use of stone and carving and other enrichments which gives it a wealthy appearance compared with our buildings. which show a forced economy of architectural ornament. One of the most used molding enrichments employed here, I think, is the egg and dart, in almost endless variety; and I never before realized what an effective one it is, though I should judge it is somewhat a costly one to cut in stone, but in terra cotta there is not that objection.

<article title=" HAMILTON'S NEW BUILDING ORDINANCE.

" author="">

THE provisions of the new building ordinance lately passed by the <assoc>City Council of Hamilton</assoc>, referred to in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for December, are as follows:

I.	following section is hereby substituted for Section of said By-law:

(5)	No person shall deposit in any public street, lane or alley in the city any material to be used in the erection of any new building, or the repair or alteration of any old building at a cost of over $100 until a plan or description in accordance with the requirements of section 7 of chapter 41 of the Consolidated By-laws has been lodged with the inspector of buildings, and such person has obtained from the inspector a permit in writing for the deposit of such material, the inspector of buildings shall give a permit in the form appended to this By-law.

(s ,a) No person shall, either personally or through anyone acting for him or with his authority, deposit or place any building material in or upon any public street, lane or alley within the limits of the city, except for the purpose of building or repairing, and in every case such building material shall be so placed as not to obstruct the surface drainage of such public street. lane or alley, or the free use of any public hydrants, or to occupy more than is necessary of such public street, lane or alley. and in no case more than one-third the width thereof in that portion of the city bounded by Catharine, Hunter, Bay and Cannon streets, and in that part of King street between Catharine and Wellington streets, or more than one-half thereof in any other part of the city, the space so occupied not to extend along such street, lane or alley further than the frontage or depth of the lot so being built upon, except that it may extend in front of the lot on either side, so long as the occupant of such adjoining lot may consent thereto ; provided always that it the owner or tenant of the real estate on the opposite side of the street, lane or alley shall require at the same time to use any portion of the street, lane or alley for the deposit of building material, then, in such case, each party shall be restricted to the use of one-fourth of such street, lane or alley instead of one-third as aforesaid in that portion of the city bounded by Catharine, Hunter, Bay and Cannon streets, and in that part of King street between Catharine and Wellington streets, and to the use of one-third of street instead of one-half thereof in any other part of the city, but every lane or alley must be kept open for traffic to a width of not less than eight feet, and such material shall not in any case be allowed to remain in any public street, lane or alley for any longer time than may be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work for which such building material is being used. Nothing in this By-law contained shall be construed to interfere with the rights and privileges granted to the Hamilton Street Railway Company or H. & D. Street Railway Company under and by virtue of the By-laws relating to such companies.

(5 b) Every person who shall deposit or place any building material upon any public street for any of the purposes here in before mentioned in that part

