<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE Bill to incorporate the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc> has passed the Legislature, but like its predecessor in Ontario, is but a skeleton of its original form. The members of the Quebec Association have secured only the right to call themselves " Registered Architects," with a legal tariff, etc. A copy of the measure has reached us, but too late to allow of its being printed in the present number.



INQUISITIVENESS is a good thing if exercised within proper limits. Unfortunately it has in some degree come to be regarded as a characteristic worthy only of reprobation, because of its abnormal development in certain individuals. This may or may not be accountable for the fact that so little use is made of the columns of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER by subscribers and readers for the purpose of making inquiries regarding matters with Which they desire to become more familiar. Few indeed there are so thoroughly posted as not to be in need of information on some subject appertaining to the profession or calling in which they are engaged. It may reasonably be assumed that architects and builders are no exception to this rule. Asking questions is one of the speediest methods of obtaining knowledge on any subject. We should be pleased therefore to receive and publish questions from our readers relating to methods of construction and kindred subjects coming legitimately within the scope of this journal. Without laying claim to the possession of any extraordinary degree of knowledge we nevertheless promise to exhaust all the sources of information at command in an endeavor to satisfy any demands for information which may be made upon us as the result of extending this invitation. The reward for any efforts put forth with this object would come to us in the interest and value to our readers which would attach to the publication of questions and answers of this character. Now bring on your questions!



THE directors of the Columbian Exposition at Chicago have set an example of wisdom in the manner in which they have gone about the solution of the architectural portion of that gigantic undertaking. It will be remembered that <firm>Messrs. Burnham & Root </firm>were appointed consulting architects, with Olmstead & Co. consulting landscape architects, and <person>Mr. Gott leib</person> consulting engineer. These gentlemen submitted a report to the directorate, in which they reviewed the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of securing designs for the various buildings. They submitted four propositions 1st, The selection of one man to whom the whole of the designing and supervision should be intrusted; 2nd, open competition; 3rd, selected competition ; 4th, direct selection—say five men of reputation. The directors, on the recommendation of the consulting architects, adopted the last proposition. The In/and Architect says of the report: "As a professional document the report stands higher than any expression upon ethics or practice ever issued to the profession or the public in this country. It establishes a precedent that will more strongly influence the manner in which public as well as private work will be done, than any other measure, less than a Congressional or State enactment. It will aid in destroying the court house competition evil, It is a document that in effect will advance professional practice many years, and as such its authors deserve the thanks of all architectural practitioners, and the country as well, in the improvement in public and private works that will result from the example set of selecting the best talent rather than procuring designs by more or less disreputable competitions."



ANY person who has stood at the intersection of King and Yonge streets, Toronto, during the busy hours of the day, or in fact at any time between the hours of 9 am. and 6.30 p.m. cannot have failed to be impressed with its congested condition. At this point is converged the bulk of the street railway traffic of the city (every line but two, we believe), and the frequent passing and crossing of the cars alone is sufficient at times to seriously delay both pedestrians and vehicles as well as the passengers in the cars. An army of operatives, clerks and business people, re-enforced by shoppers and visitors, jostle each other and dive over the crossings, often at great risk of life and limb. This blockade keeps on increasing, and the limit will soon be reached, making necessary the adoption of some means of relief, It will not do to divert the street car traffic. It is of the utmost importance that a car may be taken from such centre a to any part of the city. Pedestrians will not make use of overhead bridges, preferring to dodge through on the level rather than climb stairs. The best solution that suggests itself to us is the widening of Yonge street at this point. The buildings on the northwest and northeast corners as far as the first lane on the east side are mostly old and comparatively inexpensive. By expropriating the sites on which they stand the street could be quite doubled in width for a distance northward of about 120 feet, making a sort of square which would not only greatly relieve the traffic, but would give dignity to the most important corner in the city. The improvements could never be accomplished cheaper than now, and we respectfully call the attention of the city fathers and the public to its necessity and utility.



A VERY interesting and profitable discussion might be carried on through our correspondence columns upon the relative merits of the two systems of preparation of architectural students referred to <person>by Mr. Waterhouse</person> in the presidential address noticed elsewhere in these columns, viz., that of first entering the office of a practitioner, studying at the same time as best may be the theoretical subjects set for his intermediate examinations; or that of passing the earlier years at a technical college and finally entering an office for the practical portion of his education. It is claimed in favor of the latter system that the student is enabled, when he enters an office after a thorough technical training and a well disciplined mind, to devote his attention almost wholly to the acquisition of practical knowledge and experience, and thus to really shorten the period necessary to become a competent member of the profession. If the profession is to draw well prepared students from our own institution, it will be necessary to enlarge its scope very materially. The work now being done is good, so far as it goes, but no architect of standing would care to be limited to recruits' turned out from it under present circumstances. The Government will have to awake to the necessity of putting the architectural section on a par with similar institutions on this continent. To do this the very best men obtainable should and must be installed, and these cannot be got without adequate remuneration. No architect of experience who can make even in Canada an income of from three to six thousand dollars would be willing to give up business and accept the pittance which would be his lot were he to consent to occupy a chair in our institution.





THE question of patenting plans has given rise to considerable discussion and correspondence in the English architectural journals. A firm of architects have developed, or matured, what they claim to be an original arrangement of public offices, suitable for municipal or corporation purposes, and which they exhibit in its completeness in their competition designs for the new municipal buildings in Sheffield, (illustrated in Building News, July 25th, 1890). This particular idea they seek to patent intending to claim a royalty from any person who hereafter may adopt the same arrangement. This arrangement is, in brief, a general office, or series of them if for a large municipality, opening from a central hall. An official corridor surrounds three sides of the general office, from which only, it has access. The official corridor gives access to the various private rooms of the departmental officers, and they are thus removed from the intrusion and disturbance to which they would be subjected if their apartments opened from the public hall. Numerous correspondents protested against the proposal to patent this arrangement, citing instances of planning so nearly similar as to, in their opinion, nullify the claims of the would-be patentees. The Toronto court-house plans embody the idea, but on a very limited scale, the three court-rooms and the judges and prisoners rooms being connected by a private corridor. The general consensus of opinion amongst the members of the profession seems to be strongly against the proposed action of this firm, claiming that were others to follow in their footsteps, all freedom in planning would be shut out, and that architects would be continually tormented by fears of trespassing on forbidden ground. At the same time it is most exasperating to an architect to see his pet ideas or designs, which have cost many hours of thought and toil, coolly cribbed by some speculative builder or enterprising architectural aspirant. We heard of a case of composite architecture, not many months ago, and not

