

<doctype type="ad">PHOTO-Engraving

By the Latest Methods.



HALF-TONE

Direct from Photos a Specialty.



CUTS

For Newspapers, Magazines, Books, Catalogues, and all advertising purposes,

made with promptness and despatch.



REPRODUCTIONS

Guaranteed as good as copy.



Samples and prices on application.

	The Calladiall

Photo Engravillg Bureau

	203 YONGE ST.,

	- TORONTO.



<firm>MOORE & ALEXANDER</firm>,

	TELEPHONE	2158.	Proprietors.



The accompanying cut is a sample of our Half-Tone.



Adamant

is the Modern Wall Plaster, while old style mortar is a relic of the dark ages, and has been tolerated for centuries for the want of a better substitute.

Adamant dries within three

days; lime mortar is soft and

damp for weeks.

Adamant only requires heat for ten hours after application in the coldest weather; time mortar requires heat and constant care for at least a month in such weather.

Adamant is not affected by fire or water, and cannot be broken or marred by furniture. Crumbling walls, falling ceilings and defaced decorations are unknown where Adamant is used, It is mixed with water, and applied by any mason, in the ordinary manner. It has been used all over this country and abroad for the last four years, and is endorsed by architects, engineers, and scientific men.



 Write to any of the undersigned for information:

	The Adamant Manufacturing Co., Syracuse, N. Y.	I he United Adamant Co., Baltimore, Md.

	Adamant Manufacturing Co., Bennett Building, N. Y.	The St. Louis Adamant Co., St Louis, Mo.

	The Keystone Plaster Co., Philadelphia, Pa.	The New England Adamant Co., Boston, Mass.

	The Keystone Plaster Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.	The Ohio Adamant Plaster Co., Columbus, Ohio.

	The N. W. Adamant Co., Minneapolis, Minn,	The Ohio Plaster Co., Cleveland, Ohio.

	The N. W. Adamant Co., West Superior, Wis	The Nebraska Adamant Co., Omaha, Neb.

	The N. W. Adamant Co., Milwaukee, Wis.	'[he Adamant Plaster Co., Indianapolis, Ind.

	The Michigan Adamant Co., Detroit, Mich.	the Connecticut Adamant Co., New Haven, Coon.

	The Michigan Adamant Co., Grand Rapids, Mich.	The South-Eastern Adaniant Co., Savannah, Georgia.

	'[he New Jersey Adamant Co. Harrison, N. J.	Adamant Plaster Mfg. Co., 'tacoma, W. T.

	The Chicago Adamant Co., Chicago, Ill.	The Adamant Mfg. Co., Toronto, Can.