<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	February, 1891



literature, meets in Ottawa, but they have no such hard and fast clause in their By-laws, and they held their last meeting in Montreal. <assoc>The Royal Academy</assoc> go about from one city to another. It is not that I wish to stop meeting in Toronto, but would it not be better to state "in such time and place as shall be designated in the notice calling the meeting?"

<person>Mr. Balfour</person>: I beg to move: "That the first clause of the by-laws as submitted be amended to read as follows 'The Association shall meet on the first Tuesday in February of each year at such lime and place as shall be determined by the Council, and designated in the notice calling the meeting.'"

<person>Mr. Billings</person>: I second the motion.

A Member: The notice should be issued earlier. I got mine only twelve days ago.

The Registrar: The by-laws settling the election cover those notices.

<person>Mr. Burke: </person>We are already fixing the time for next annual meeting, and we can begin now to get ready for it. We have notice a year ahead. I am in favor of having it in Toronto all the time, for the reason that we can always here secure a fairly good representation. while, if we go to an outside place we may have a very small Convention.

Mr. Billings: Suppose Hamilton, or some other place, should suddenly become larger? (Hear, hear, and laughter).

<person>Mr. Rastrick</person>: I seriously thought of this matter when that clause was proposed at the Council, and I came to the conclusion that it would not do for our Association to be a travelling  menagerie (Laughter) - because, all travelling Associations end in quarrelling and dissension, more especially when you have the matter of locality to decide. We have here in Toronto all our scientific societies, and even in this building an illustration of the fact that you have not such a building or such prospects of education in any town in this Dominion. There is something to be said about meeting in local places, but there are only a few who belong to this Association in the towns. The chief officers of the Council are resident in Toronto—very justly so. The architects in Toronto are of good standing and position which entitles them to that respect, and I think the Government was justified in appointing those men. I think we would be doing wrong to alter the by-law.

Mr. Balfour: We will have to hold all our meetings in Toronto according to this by-law.

<person>Mr. Curry</person>: I rise to a point of order ; there is no motion before the chair.

The President What is this I hold in my hand? (Laughter). Mr. Curry: I beg pardon; I did not know the resolution was before the house.

Mr. Balfour (continuing) These fellows from Toronto want to do all the talking. (Laughter). We are not taking the matter out of the Council's hands by my amendment. Suppose we got an invitation from Ottawa, and the Council thought there would be something there for our benefit. I am sure we would all be benefited by going through the Langevin Block, and having it shown to us as carefully as our friend Mr. Billings read his paper yesterday.

<person>Mr. Gregg </person>: That is putting the whole control of the meetings in the hands of the Council, and I don't think they want that responsibility. I move, "That the Association shall meet in the city of Toronto annually, or at such place as may be arranged at a previous meeting, on the second Tuesday in February, at such time and place as shall be designated in the notice calling the meeting." Then if we wish to me in Ottawa next year, we can pass a motion and it is settled. If no motion is passed we meet in Toronto.

<person>Mr. Paull</person>: I second Mr. Gregg's amendment.

<person>Mr. Gordon </person>It is quite unnecessary to leave the matter in the loose form which this last amendment does. Far better have the original one, or better still, Mr. Balfour's, leaving the whole matter in the hands of the Council, who would perhaps be in a better position than any others to decide. (Hear, hear). Before six months are over some special attraction may arise in a particular locality which might influence the Council in deciding on another place than Toronto. I don't think we can now decide what the requirements one year hence will be, and could not instruct the Council as to where the meeting should be held.

Mr. Gregg: It is a very common thing in Conventions to decide before closing, where the next meeting is to be held; and it is quite an interesting matter, as, perhaps, two or three places wish a vote taken ; and we are taking it out of the hands of the Convention and putting it in the hands of the Council.

Mr. Gregg's amendment was then put and lost.

Mr. Balfour's amendment was carried almost unanimously.

Sections 2, 3, 4,5, and 6 of the by-laws were adopted without debate.

On No. 7, Mr. Gordon thought it would be awkward to leave the elections till the last day, as sometimes a three day's session would be held, and many members might not be able to remain to the close.

Mr. Balfour: Suppose there is only a one day meeting.

Mr. Gordon: I don't think we ever will have a one-day meeting, because members from a distance cannot get here to the morning session.

The President The very reason Mr. Gordon gives for changing it was the reason it was adopted. The election would be so interesting that the members would remain over for it If there

was only a session of one day, that would be the "last day" according to the by-laws; in a two-day's session, the second would be the "last," and so on. The clause was adopted, and also Nos. 8, 9, and 10, and then they were all adopted with the amendment to the first one.

The President Our official stenographer remarks that the Council who drafted these by-laws must be composed of unusually wise and clear-headed men, when they were adopted with so few changes and so little debate. (Laughter).

The by-laws as adopted are as follows

1.	The Association shall meet on the first Tuesday in February of each year at such time and place as shall be determined by the Council designated in the notice calling the meeting.

2.	Any person being a British subject who has for ten years been practising the profession of Architecture and residing within this Province, and is, at the time of his nomination, a member in good standing of this Association, shall be eligible for election as a member of the Council.

3.	Nominations to membership of the Council shall be in writing upon blanks to be mailed by the Registrar to each member at least two months before the annual meeting, and must be returned and in the hands of the Registrar at least one month before the date of the said meeting.

4.	Each member in good standing is entitled to nominate and vote For as many candidates for election to the Council as there are vacancies to be filled.

5.	After the nominations are closed, an alphabetical printed list of all nominations made will be forwarded to each member of the Association at least two weeks before the date of the annual meeting.

6.	The nomination blanks shall state the date upon which the nominations will close, and list of nominations shall state the date at which and the place where the annual meeting will be held.

7.	The election to membership in the Council shall be by ballot, and shall be held upon the last day of the annual meeting of the Association.

8.	There shall be paid to each member of the Council for attendance at each meeting of the Council, his actual and necessary travelling and hotel expenses.

9.	A special meeting of the Association shall be called by the Registrar upon the requisition of the Council or of twenty-five members of the Association in good standing. The requisition shall state the time, place, and object of such meeting; and a copy of the requisition shall be sent to each member, with the notice calling the meeting at least ten days beforehand. No business shall be transacted at any special meeting other than that mentioned upon the notice paper.

10.	At each annual meeting of the Association, two Auditors, not members of the Council shall be elected. They shall have access at all reasonable times to the books, accounts and securities of the Association, and shall report thereon at the next annual meeting, In the event of death or resignation of an Auditor, the vacancy shall be filled by the Council.



<article title=" WEATHERING OF BUILDING STONE." author="MacDougall, Allan">WEATHERING OF BUILDING STONE.

Mr. <person>Allan Macdougall </person>read a valuable paper on this subject, the discussion of which took a tangible form in the following resolution which was unanimously adopted.

Moved by Mr. Curry, seconded by <person>Mr. Dick</person>, "That it be an instruction of this Convention to the Council that they shall take such action as they may deem best to determine the quality and value of the building stones which are being used in this Province."

<article title=" SLOW BURNING CONSTRUCTION " author="Burke, Edmund">SLOW BURNING CONSTRUCTION.

Mr. <person>Edmund Burke</person>paper on this subject was illustrated by printed diagrams distributed among the members. At its conclusion— The President said: I am sure we are very much indebted to Mr. Burke for bringing this matter up in the manner that he has done. It is one that is becoming more and more interesting to us as building operations are proceeding—the idea of approaching as near as possible to fire-proof buildings. Absolutely fireproof buildings are very expensive, and we cannot always attain to that standard; but we are getting as near to it as we can, and we are indebted to Mr. Burke for his suggestions.



<person>Mr. Belcher</person>: I have great pleasure in moving a vote of thanks to Mr. Burke for his paper, and particularly for the manner in which he has got it up, so that we can have time at our leisure to study and read it over.



<person>Mr. Rastrick</person>: I have very great pleasure in seconding it. I think it is a very timely and practical paper—one that younger members of the Association can well take note of.

The motion was carried heartily, and

The President said: Mr. Burke, I have great pleasure in tendering you the thanks of this Convention for the paper, for it is a subject that has at present more interest, I think, than almost any other subject in connection with building. (Hear, hear).

Mr. Burke acknowledged the vote of thanks.

<article title=" CONDITIONS FOR COMPETITIONS " author="">.



The President: This resolution was introduced yesterday, and was left over till now: "Moved by Mr. Edwards, seconded by <person>Mr. Jarvis</person>, that a Committee be appointed to prepare conditions of competition that shall be acceptable to this Association.' What is your pleasure in reference to it?

<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield</person>: We have not heard the views and reasons of the mover and seconder. The mover is not here, but the seconder can surely take the responsibility.

Mr. Jarvis: The idea was that as yet we have no rules to tell us why we should not go into certain competitions. We are merely informed by a letter from the Council that we shan't go into competition.

<person>Mr. Curry</person>: Excuse me; I think we should be very careful about the way we word our statements. There has not been anything said by the Council to the effect that we "shan't" do anything. It is simply that certain things have been decided by the Council, and you are requested to carry them out.

Mr. Jarvis: It is understood that if you go into competition

