<doctype type="text">February, 1891	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	19



when the Council directs you not to, you get into bad favor with every one; and I think it is only right that we should have certain rules for competition that should be followed by every one and this is merely a proposition that a Committee look into the matter and draw up a resolution that should be put before the whole Association and have it voted upon.

<person>Mr. Gouinlock</person>: I quite agree with the proposer and seconder that this is a very important matter, and one that should be taken up by the Association. But I understood there was a Committee appointed for this purpose last year, and I should like to hear from them. (Laughter). There is no use in appointing Committees if they are not going to attend to their work.

<person>Mr. Curry</person>: There seems to be rather a misunderstanding about this question. I read a paper last year on "Competitions," and as a result somebody moved that the Council should take the matter up and formulate a scheme for a competition. I don't remember the motion being made ; no doubt it was made, but up to yesterday morning I did not know there was any such motion made. I suppose that is the position of other members of the Council on that question. You must remember the Council had a very large amount of very special business during the past year, and largely on that account, if on no other, the thing has been neglected. Another thing, the Council is not in a position to dictate what members shall do. They are only in a position to lay down rules as far as necessary, and the fewer the better. We should try to arrive at something like a harmonious opinion as to what the members themselves think they should do, and whatever we agree to should be the views of the majority, so that those who don't agree will be few, and there will be sufficient numbers in the Convention to speak rather unfavorably of their action, so that they may see it is not proper. Competitions are instituted with the object of securing superior designs, generally by those who know nothing whatever as to how they should be conducted. The result is that a lot of inferior designs are received, and possibly the best, or second or third best of them is carried out. Now, conditions should be so worded that any architect who respects himself and his profession will enter; but generally the contrary is the case. The Council should deal with this matter, because they have authority to carry out their decisions. After all, while there is a great deal to be said against competitions, there are some things in their favor. They afford opportunities for bringing young men of ability into prominence. It is much better for a young man to win a competition than to spend his time log-rolling and hunting around for work by all manner of trickery—which I am sorry to say is only too prevalent and a man who wins his place deserves it. One of the points to be considered is the question of experts. One expert is not satisfactory in many cases ; no matter how sincere he may be, it is almost impossible that he should be fair, there are so many points brought up and so many different ways of looking at a thing. An expert in construction will consider plans from this point of view, and an artistic man will perhaps neglect to look into construction at all. I think there should be three experts, so as to balance up and have as nearly a correct and fair test as possible. I think three would do better than five. It would be a benefit not only to us but to proprietors to have the competitions under the management of the Association. It is to our interest to have the very best designs built. Buildings which are made from second-rate or third-rate plans are not a fair statement of our professional ability. As matters are now, the best men invariably remain out of competitions. Our interests are really identical with those of the proprietors we all want the best designs, and I think it would be possible to secure a set of fair conditions.

The President Is it your pleasure that a resolution of this kind be adopted, or that the matter be left in the hands of the Council, to be taken up at their leisure, and to prepare a set of model conditions for the next Convention?

The President: Is it your pleasure that a resolution of this kind be adopted, or that the matter be left in the hands of the Council, to be taken up at their leisure, and to prepare a set of model conditions for the next Convention?

Mr. Gouinlock: If the Council are not overburdened with work I think that would be acceptable. This is a matter that ought to be attended to very soon. There were a number of competitions last year, and we received notice not to compete— with all of which I complied.

<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield</person>: The conditions of these competitions would prevent any man who respects himself and his profession from going into them—such, for instance, as the recent Montreal Board of Trade one. I suppose the majority of us had decided, before we got our notice. not to go into it. Twenty-six Canadian architects have gone into it, but not one member of this or the <assoc>Quebec Association</assoc>. (A voice—" Are you sure of that ?") It is suggested that some who have gone in are members of this Association. If so, I can only say I am very sorry for them; but I think we all know what kind of men those are. It shows how important it is for our Council to keep their eyes open to this sort of thing. That motion brought up by <person>Mr. Curry</person>, of showing to the public that t is to their interest that competitions should be arranged on professional rules, is very important; and I think it would be well if that was brought prominently before the notice of the Council.

<person>Mr. Jarvis</person>: I consider that is the very reason why proper conditions should be published and let the public know what

would be the best thing for themselves. They often get up conditions among themselves, and it is through their own ignorance that we are not allowed to go into competitions; whereas if they were better informed we might all go in for it and they should be agreeable to accept our conditions.

Mr. Curry: Would this Convention be agreeable to the decision of the Council? (Hear, hear, and applause).

<person>Mr. Burke</person>: I am sure the Council would be very sorry to have the feeling get abroad that they are trying to choke down competitions, and all the sort of thing. The Council have perhaps four or five times the information regarding these competitions that the outside members have. We have corresponded with the instigators of the competitions; and if they have been in the same place, we have gone to see them, and had many meetings with them; and I don't think that any member ought to feel that we are trying to choke down the thing when we send them a notice advising them not to compete. We have weighed the matter from every point of view, and done all we could as a Council to influence those parties to institute a competition in a proper form. (Applause).

<person>Mr. Townsend </person>There is one strong reason that should weigh with members—that a competition is advertised as open to all architects of the country, and the public get the idea that the competition is between all the architects of the country, whereas in reality an unfair competition is only between the very poorest architects of the country, and results very unfavorably upon the profession. For that reason the Council are bound to place as forcibly as possible before the members the objections to any competitions that are offered.

<person>Mr. Balfour</person>: Did you notify the Secretary of the <assoc>Montreal Board of Trade </assoc>that the conditions of their competition were not satisfactory to this Association?

Mr. Townsend: We had a large correspondence with them as to the conditions that would be satisfactory to us before we issued the notice.

Mr. Burke I think if Mr. Balfour had read the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER he would have seen that.

<person>Mr. Langton </person>The Council issued instructions on the basis of rules that we all agree were not honorable; but if in connection with that we are to take Mr. Curry's doctrine that the advice issued by the Council is not necessarily binding on members, I should think it would be better if we had a set of rules. to which we all subscribed (hear, hear), for the purpose of this Association is to a large extent vitiated if we do not follow out the advice the Council sends to us. Hear, hear).

Mr. Balfour: We have a Council who can take this matter up and weigh it properly. They will not be worked as hard next year as they have been the last. By all means leave it in the hands of the Council; they have had experience in the matter. I for one have felt that I would not on any consideration enter into competitions that have been offered, on the conditions placed before us and I think good cause has been shown in the most of them that we have been invited to enter.

<person>Mr. Dick</person>: The Council might prepare draft conditions, send a copy to every member and have him return them with his remarks and suggestions. The Council can then take the matter up again and complete their work and issue the conditions. If not satisfactory, they can be brought up at the next Convention and dealt with. They might be put into such a shape that they would be satisfactory for this year, and any serious defects could be remedied a year from now.

The President ·Do you make a motion to that effect?

Mr. Dick No; let that be understood.

The President Is it the pleasure of the Convention that this resolution be withdrawn and that it stand as an instruction to the Council?

"Yes."

The resolution was therefore adopted.

The session then closed.

AFTERNOON SESSION.



The President: Our first business is a paper by <person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield </person>on

ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION.

This paper excited quite a discussion as to the draft curriculum which had been discussed in Council.

MEMBERS' TITLES.

Mr. Burke: On the matter of uniformity of designation or title, we have noticed some architects calling themselves one thing, and some another. Now, I think we should as an Association all have the same title on our cards or letter heads—not "R.A.," because that might be construed "Royal Academician"; and we do not want to be considered registered architects just yet. The Council thought it would be best to put on our letter heads "Member (or members) of the Ontario Association of Architects."

<person>Mr. Rastrick </person>: Not the initials?

Mr. Burke: No; in full. The Council thought the members should adopt a uniform plan-not one say "R.A." and another "M.O.A.A."—not initials, but the full title.

Mr. Gambier-Bousfield: There is this to be said about the matter—it brings the Association into prominence, and that is one of the great things we want to do. We want to show that it is a live, active body, and the more we can bring it before the public, the better our interests will be served.

The President That is a very good point of Mr. Burke's.

