<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER		February, 1891



proprietor, who is thus bound to pay the bank-—be cannot help it; then of course he can take action against the contractor and dispute the certificate. According to the decisions of different courts, a certificate ought not to be used as a draft and deposited. Another point is as to whether the proprietor is bound to pay the contractor the amount certified to ; and especially if it is a final certificate. The courts have generally decided that it entirely rests upon the wording of the contract. If the contract says that the architect is the sole arbitrator in the matter, then the certificate which he gives cannot be disputed; at the same time the proprietor has a remedy at law, and he can—and in many cases has — recovered from the architect whatever was wrong in the certificate; because very often there are matters that an architect cannot certify to. There may be matters, especially on alterations, in which the proprietor is about the house all the time, and which it is very awkward for the architect to find out. Besides, we are not clerks of works, and we do not propose to spend so much time on buildings as would enable us to see everything that goes on—we can only have a general idea. Then if the clause about the architect being sole arbitrator is left out of the contract the proprietor is not bound to pay, and the contractor can go to law with him. The American architects I have alluded to go so far as to stamp on their certificates that they will not be held responsible for the certificate. Then the question comes: of what value is that certificate? They say they won't be responsible for the value of the work done. Is that certificate of any value at all if the proprietor has to pay it and take his own chances? Of course, if he has employed a clerk of works he has probably got all that he has to pay for, and that clause in the certificate simply throws the onus on the proprietor; so that you see there are a great many questions to be considered in this matter and that is why it was brought up last year.

<person>Mr. Edwards</person>: From what <person>Mr. Bousfield </person>has said I gather that it is not so much the certificate as the contract under which the certificate is given. It would be well, then, to discuss the matter of the articles of agreement before you go on to the certificate.

<person>Mr. Rastrick</person>:	This is an important question which I think you will not decide without consultation with some eminent lawyer. The judges do not hold a certificate in any way valid for the collection of money in which mistakes occur, because they hold the architect is only a party to it and consequently could not give a certificate, as he made himself so much of a party that he specifies in his contract that he is sole judge and arbitrator of whether he has done right or wrong. Now, that alone would nullify or stultify his power of giving a certificate. Let these matters be discussed with a lawyer equitably, and let us arrive at a basis that this Association can carry out and recommend to our members. I have had to sign certificates when I knew that the man had not done the work up to his contract. You may say I was wrong in doing it ; but very few architects can resist the pressure both of the contractor and of the employer, who want the certificate issued. I think it would be well to let this matter rest until we can fulminate certain things which apparently are not to be got at present. There is the matter of the judges' decisions, these should be collected for reference, and this can only be done by waiting.

<person>Mr. Gordon</person>:	The great point we are interested in, and the question we want to have solved, is our responsibility in signing a certificate for work. I think there are many points that may. be carefully guarded in a certificate with the assistance of legal advice in the phraseology, and with our practical knowledge to assist the lawyer in so framing it ; and there are many points which by our careless or thoughtless method of framing our certificate, leave us open, if the proprietor be a dishonest man to him taking action against us. Dealing, as we very often are, with scores of contractors—some of whom of course may be dishonest men-—(Laughter), and being unable to give that personal supervision to every minute detail, it is impossible for us to assume the large responsibility which some men seem to think we should. They seem to think we ought to assume the responsibility of a chief contractor, and that if, within months afterwards, anything should go wrong, we must be held responsible for every little minute detail which the scamping of one of the contractors has entailed. While I don't want—and I don't think any gentleman here wants—to escape any responsibility which we can reasonably be expected to assume, we do want to be guarded against the absurd claims of unreasonable clients holding us responsible for all the misdeeds of the contractors whom they happen to employ. (Hear, hear.)

Mr. Rastrick:	I might add that by law—and equity too—the architect is not held responsible in any particular, except as the agent ; therefore any action brought against him can only be brought as agent, and you would find that that would not stand in any court. That I know from experience; I speak from having the matter decided in courts—not in this country, but in England,

<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield</person>: That makes all the difference as to whether it was in England or this country.

Mr. Rastrick:	The law is administered in this country just the same as in Great Britain; and they generally quote the English precedents in our courts here.

Mr. Langley:	I think this matter simply resolves itself into the question whether the architect should not always have a contract with the proprietor. (Laughter.) We have our schedule of rates and our conditions printed and if we had our contract,

properly framed, &c., we could secure ourselves. (Hear, hear.)

I cannot conceive of any certificate being sufficiently ample to

cover the whole ground so as to guard an architect unless he has

a thorough contract with the proprietor. (Hear, hear.) I think

it would be waste time.

The President: <person>Mr. Dick</person>, what is your view on the matter? Mr. D. B. Dick: I cannot say that I see the necessity for any uniform form of certificate. I have always used the same form, and I never found any difficulty arise from it. It simply states that So-and-So is entitled to receive so much money on account of his contract for such and such a work. At the bottom is a receipt form which he signs when he receives the money I don't think that a certificate is looked upon as a form that can be deposited in a bank and drawn upon.

(A voice—" Well, they.do it.")

I know they do it sometimes, but I don't think they are legally entitled to do it, and I don't think any cautious banker would advance money on it. As to the contractor suing upon a certificate or the proprietor being obliged to pay it, I think that a man employs an architect as some one in whom he has confidence, and as a general rule he will pay his certificates without question; but we find occasionally in a final certificate, when a considerable sum for extras is included, that the proprietor will ask the contractor to hold it over till he sees the architect. There is nothing unreasonable in that. I don't think any kind of a certificate that can be drawn will take the place of a good form of contract between proprietor and contractor. The certificate should be left as simple as possible. As to holding the architect responsible for the delinquencies of the contractor, a very nice point might arise. The contractor completes his work, and is entitled to so much money ; .but if you had let the work to some other contractor he might have been entitled to a good deal more money—because I suppose all of you know from experience that the work of one contractor is by no means of equal value, in most cases, with the work of another, even without going so far as our friend, Mr. Gordon, and saying that of nineteen or twenty contractors some of them must be dishonest.

Mr. Gordon: I said scores; I did not say nineteen or twenty. (Laughter.)

Mr. Dick: Even call it hundreds; I don't think there is any absolute necessity for any of them being dishonest. (Laughter). However, the question still remains as to the absolute value of the work done. It is simply a contract to do so much work for so much money; one man will do it better than another, and it is just for the architect to use his judgment whether he will certify that the work has been done as well as the contractor could reasonably be expected to do it, while he knows very well that another contractor at the same price would have given you better value for the money. I think going into all these matters is unnecessary refinement. I think a certificate is simply a statement by an architect that he considers the contractor is entitled to so much money for work done.

Registrar <person>Townsend</person>: A case was submitted to me a short time ago for an opinion, and I found on looking into the decision of the courts that the responsibility we assume in connection with certificates rests almost entirely with ourselves. If in our contracts between builders and proprietor we insert a clause stating that we are to be the judge or final arbitrator in all points, then the responsibility of the contractor to complete his work, or his failure to comply with the contract, is transferred to our shoulders and a certificate that the work is done makes us responsible to the proprietor, and in numbers of cases the proprietor has collected from the architect on that clause; but in every case in which that clause was omitted, the builder was held solely and wholly liable for all loss, and the certificate of the architect was only taken as evidence as to the quantity and quality of the work done.

<person>Mr. Curry</person>: Who is to settle as to the work? I think this question can be solved very easily, in a sense. It is only a question of the present form of certificate, which reads I hereby certify that a certain party is entitled to a certain amount of money for doing certain things." If that was changed thus "I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that So-and So "—you would get over the whole thing (laughter), because that is practically what it all means. It is to the best of your knowledge and belief; and your client must judge as to whether you have any knowledge in the matter, or whether your knowledge is worth anything. (Laughter). If he does not believe in your knowledge, I suppose he would not employ you; but the only question raised was that the certificate was a little too stiff—" I hereby certify that, etc." The thing is very definite and very positive and a man might certify to a thing that was not true, through not being on the work, or some defect that might arise afterwards. As to Mr. Townsend's clause, I don't quite understand it. I don't know whether the clause says that the architect is to be sole arbitrator, or whether the work is to be done to his satisfaction. It has got to be done to somebody's satisfaction, and it is not likely that the proprietor would consent to its being done to the contractor's satisfaction, or that the contractor would agree to the proprietor being the judge.

Mr. Rastrick: Up west contractors will not agree to a contract when it is left open to the sole arbitration of the architect.

Mr. Langley Where it is a question of extras, there is a provision for the appointment of arbitrators; but under themodel contract the architect is made sole arbitrator.

