<doctype type="text">February 1891	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	17



<person>Mr. Gordon</person>: As long as the building is under progress the architect is the sole arbitrator; but in any matter of final adjustment, whether it be in relation to the contract or quality of work or extras, or anything of that sort, then of course there is recourse to arbitration.

<person>Mr. Langley</person>:	You will find it is only on the matter of extras or charges.

<person>Mr. Townsend</person>: In reply to <person>Mr. Curry </person>I may say, that the clause on which the decisions I mentioned are based is the clause so common in Old Country contracts—that all matters in dispute between contractor and proprietor shall be settled by the architect. I understand that clause in most of the contracts in Canada is omitted ; but it is still very largely in use in England, and it is of course English decisions that we have before us. There are very few Canadian decisions upon this point.

Mr. Langton:	In all contracts there is a clause signifying in what way the contractor gets his money, by certificate from the architect ; and usually, in my case, it is there that the guarding of the nature of the certificate is inserted. It is always possible in a contract to say all that is necessary about the value of a certificate between the owner and the architect; and then the certificate itself would be kept as simple as possible. (Hear, hear.)

<person>Mr. Gregg</person>: In a discussion in the <assoc>American Association </assoc>one of the leading American architects—I think it was <person>Preston</person>—said he did the very thing that Mr. Curry suggested, and it was followed by an audible smile. (Laughter.) He said he always put in a clause, "to the best of my knowledge ;" and another architect—that I myself have worked with in Montreal—in giving a final certificate invariably before signing put in the letters "E. and 0. E."—" errors and omissions excepted." (Great laughter.) Now, I think just that simple guarding of the final certificate is sufficient. (Renewed laughter.)

<person>Mr. Gouinlock</person>:	I think the contract covers it nicely, saying that the architect shall be arbitrator and his decision shall be final; and I think that contract was drawn up by the architects and builders mutually, and I don't think the certificate has anything to do with it at all. This is a matter of contract, not certificate.

The President:	I am very glad to have heard the discussion. I don't think it is a matter that we can definitely decide upon in this Convention, or even by the Council. I have had some years' experience as an architect, and I have never found any difficulty about a certificate in any shape; and I have always had that clause making myself the sole arbitrator of all matters in dispute between proprietor and contractor; and I will refuse

—and have over and over again refused—to have any other contract. The only one I remember which was drawn up differently was the University contract, where the late John Worthington was contractor; and he was rather suspicious of us being hard upon him, and he had an arbitration clause put in, which was consented to by the Council of that day. At the first issuing of certificates, where we had some extras to allow him for, he claimed his arbitration clause, and the late <person>Mr. Sheard </person>was the arbitrator, and he only allowed him about two-thirds of what we were willing to allow him ; so that after that he did not claim his arbitration clause at all, and we went on very comfortably. (Laughter). I don't think any of these suggestions that have been made by the members are favorable to us as a profession. If we undertake a certain duty, and we have certain responsibilities, we should shoulder them fairly and properly. If we issue a certificate it should show on its face what it is worth. It is as much as to say: "I am satisfied that the work has been done so far, and that man is entitled to so much money." Take that responsibility, and hold it, and stand by it. (Hear, hear.) Don't try to get out of it by any underhand way of saying, "So far as my knowledge," or "So far as I know," or any subterfuge of that kind at all—(Applause)—and when the work is finished and the contract is closed, shoulder the responsibility and say "I am satisfied with that building," and give the man his certificate. (Hear, hear, and applause). These are the principles I have worked upon for upwards of thirty years, and I have never found any difficulty arise.

The President read the resolution, and was about to put it, when— Reg. <person>Townsend</person> said: I would like to move an amendment, that instead of putting this matter into the hands of the Council to deal with, a committee of the Association be named, who shall prepare suggestions as to what both contract and certificate should include, and submit this draft to the next meeting of the Convention. The Council has more than it can attend to for the coming year, and if this motion is passed I am afraid it would be left over to be brought up again at the next Convention.

Mr. Langley: I think the meeting does not want it at all. (Laughter).

Mr. Gregg: I think that motion is out of order. Bringing in a contract opens up an entirely new question.

The President:	I thought the question was up at the last Convention, and I did not want to burk the discussion, because it is a question that some members think is a serious one; I don't think so at all myself. (Hear, hear).

Mr. Townsend withdrew his amendment.

The main motion was put and lost.

<article title=" COMPETITIONS." author="">COMPETITIONS.



Mr. W. A. Edwards moved, seconded by <person>E. B. Jarvis</person>, "That

a Committee be appointed to prepare conditions of competitions that shall be acceptable to this Association.'

Mr. Gouinlock: I understood there was a Committee appointed at the last Convention to do this. I would like to hear from them.

<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield</person>: The Council have not been doing their work. The work has to be done over again. We would like to know something about it.

The President: The Registrar and myself have explained that our duties in the Council have been so onerous that we have not been able to do anything in the matter, and we asked that the Committee be appointed again, and this is the result—this resolution.

Mr. Curry: It is all well enough to appoint Committees, but I think the Council should do this work, as it is a responsible body. I think the task of drawing up a set of conditions that will be satisfactory to the members is one that a Committee cannot carry out. What we need is some understanding as to what is to be done about competitions. The Council cannot bind members, and some members will not be bound by themselves or anybody else in this matter Let us discuss the question and ascertain what the majority of members would be willing to do ; because as long as ninety- five say they will not enter any form of competition, we are going to have the same trouble over again. (Hear, hear).

Mr. Edwards: I might suggest that Mr. Curry move an amendment that this order of business be laid over, as this is the order arising out of the minutes.

Mr. Curry: I will take that suggestion and move that the resolution be considered to-morrow, under the head of "Special business brought up by individual members."

This motion was seconded by Mr. Burke and adopted.

HOT WATER HEATING IN THE DOMINION PUBLIC BUILDINGS DURING THE PAST TEN YEARS.



This was the subject of an elaborate and well-considered paper by Messrs. Ewart and Billings, of Ottawa. <person>Mr. Billings </person>read the paper, accompanying the reading with blackboard and other illustrations. It excited a lively discussion. In a later issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER this and other papers, with the discussions thereon, will be published.

Mr. <person>H. C. Gordon</person>, of Toronto, followed with a paper on

BUILDING MATERIALS

As it was nearly six o'clock by the time the reading of the paper was finished, no discussion was had upon it; but a motion of thanks was moved by Mr. Gouinlock, seconded by Mr. Wilson.

In replying to the vote of thanks tendered by the President— Mr. Gordon, said: I thank you for your patience, gentlemen.

The President said that the paper was one that could not be so thoroughly understood in hearing as it would be when published, and the members of the profession would have the pleasure of seeing it in the report of the proceedings and be able to gather more from it then than was possible by hearing it read.

The Convention adjourned at six o'clock.





<article title=" SECOND DAY " author="">.



THE BY-LAWS,



The President Gentlemen, our first business is the discussion upon the By-laws, copies of which have been distributed among you., These are the Bylaws governing the Association generally as far as it affects individual members. The other By-laws are rules and regulations governing the other matters of the Association such as education of students, and examinations, and appointment of officers, and all that comes within the province of the Council It is their duty to look after these matters. These ten By-laws before you are all that are necessary for the Association to take under consideration at the present time. The other set of Bylaws have not been thoroughly worked out yet. We have had several meetings and discussions about them. They are pretty nearly completed now; we will probably have them out in a very short time. I would request the Registrar to read these By-laws. I suppose the better way would be to take them up seriatim and discuss them separately.

The Registrar read clause No. I.

<person>Mr. Gordon: </person>I think the third Tuesday in February is rather late for our annual meeting. It is getting on to the time when we are getting busy. I would move that it be made the first Tuesday.

<person>Mr. Billings </person>: If this By-law is passed it will fix the meeting in Toronto and make it impossible to go anywhere else without having a change of the By-law, which would take some time. If any other city was desirous of having the meeting, and there were a sufficient number of architects to carry such a motion, could it be passed through at one meeting so that the next year it could be held at any other city?

The President No ; if this By-law carries it will fix the time and place permanently until an alteration in the By-law, which would take the natural course of proposing it at one meeting and not considering it until the following meeting. This was discussed fully in the Council with representatives from almost all parts.

Mr. Billings : This is the only society of the kind that meets only in one place. <assoc>The Royal Society</assoc>, dealing with science and

