<doctype type="text">February, 1891	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	15



Respect yourselves and each other's honor. A law of incorporation can do little for you if you do not carry on your work in this spirit.

this above all— To thine own self be true, And it must follow as the night the day

Thou can'st not then be false to any man."



The reading of the address was received with applause.

Mr. <person>D. B. Dick</person>, Treasurer, said that as this was the first meeting of the incorporated Association, he had no set statement, except to acknowledge receipt of $2003.30 from the Registrar, which will appear in his statement. The details of the rest will be accounted for by him.

The Registrar presented the following report:

INCOME

 145 Architects' registration fees @ $15			$2175	oo

 76 registration fees of existing students @	$1		76	00

 73 articles of indenture registered $1			73	00

 Students' registration fees @ $5			15	00

   Interest on Registrars balance			6	33

EXPENDITURE.

 Directors' expenses	$140	00

 Registrar's salary	108	00

 Postage stationary, books, etc	25	90

 Printing, advertising etc	33	35

 Rent of room for meetings	10	00

 Fees returned to <person>Mr. Raby</person>	13	00

 Collections on cheques		50

                                            $330 75

Balance in bands of Treasurer	2003 33

	Balance in hands of Registrar....	11 25



$2345 33 $2345 33



145 have applied to be registered as Architects; one of these subsequently withdrew his application and registered as a Student one has since died, and three of the applications recorded are now awaiting the decision of the the Council so there are now 140 names in good standing upon the books of the Association of these, 70, or exactly half, hail from Toronto Ottawa claims I8, or about one-quarter of the balance; Hamilton, II London, 6; Kingston. 5; St. Thomas, 3; Brockville, Chatham Peterboro and Woodstock, 2 each; while Almonte, Barrie, Bowmanville, Deseronto. Port Elgin, Guelph. Lindsay, Napanee, Paris, Pembroke. Owen Sound, St. Catharines, Meaford, Ridgetown, Warkworth, Whitby, Windsor and Stratford, have to get along with one apiece.

Seventy-six students have taken advantage of the proviso in Sec. 24 of the Act and applied for registration as existing students, and three have applied applied for permission to be articled for a five year course. At this morning's meeting of the Council these three have been accepted.

Three meetings of the full Council have been held, and six meetings of the Toronto Committee of the Council, This Committee has prepared the draft By-laws, which will be laid before you, before the Convention closes, and a draft of rules and regulations of the Council that will in all probability be put into proper shape for publication at the next Council meeting. It has also prepared a form of indenture for the use of those members of the Association who wish to take pupils into their offices.

Much work has al-o been done towards the preparation of the regulations to govern the examination and enrolment of students, by both the Toronto and Ottawa Committees, and I think the work is now so far advanced that the Council will be in a position to issue all the necessary rules and regulations at an early date.

I have had a good deal of correspondence with the promoters of registration measures in England and in the Province of Quebec in both of which places this movement is rapidly gaining ground, and I have been asked by my correspondents to lay two or three of these letters before you.

The first was written in January, 1890, at the time our Act was before the Legislature, and shortly after the receipt of the resolution passed at our last Convention. It was as follows



12 Carleton Chambers, Regent Street, S. W.,

LONDON, 9th January, 1890.

Registration of Architects.

Mv DEAR SIR,	Please convey from me, to the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>, my sincere thanks for the very kind resolution passed at their annual Convention. Such fraternal sympathy is a great encouragement to me to persevere in my efforts, In the mother country, 1 am sorry to say, I meet with much opposition, though the number of supporters of the measure is year by year greatly increasing I heartily congratulate you upon the success which has attended your efforts, and trust that your Bill will pass without opposition. I take it for granted that you are fully aware of the efforts being made to attain the same object in France, Australia and the United States. Believe me, my dear sir,

	Yours	fraternally

<person>HUGH ROUMIEU GOUGH</person>.

<person>S.	Hamilton Townsend</person>, Esq., Sec. 0. A. A., Toronto, Canada. Mr. Gough is the late President of the Society of Architects.



The second is dated May 29th, about a month after the passage of our Act



The Architects' and Engineers' Registration Act Committee,

39 KING ST,, CAEAPSIDE, E.C., LONDON, May 29th, 1890.



DEAR SIR—I am desired by my committee to inform you that at the last meeting held at St. James Hall, Piccadilly, London, a resolution was unanimously passed congratulating the architects of Ontario upon the recent passing of the Architects' Registration Bill for that Province, and I shall be much obliged if you will kindly make this known to the promoters of the measure. I would also deem it a favor if you can supply me with a copy of your Act, as we architects in England naturally take a great interest in the movement brought to such a successful issue in your country.

I am, dear sir, Yours truly <person>EDGAR FARMAN</person>.

S.	H. Townsend, Esq.,	Hon. Sec'y.

	  53 King St. East, Toronto, Canada.



The third is from <person>Mr. Clift</person>, of Montreal, the Secretary of the Quebec Association, and was written a few days after their late convention:



1724 Notre Dame Street,

MONTREAL, Oct. 15th, 1890.

S.	H. Townsend, Esq.,

Sec. Ontario Association of Architects.

DEAR SIR—It gives me pleasure to inform you, that it was moved, seconded, and carried unanimously, at the first annual meeting of our association, held on the 10th and 11th inst.. That the thanks of our association be tendered to the Province of Ontario Association and yourself, for the kind assistance you have given us in the formation of our association. So you will please accept our warmest thanks for those kind services, and it gives me great pleasure to state that our first annual meeting was a complete success in every way.

Believe me, dear sir,

Yours very sincerely,

<person>C. CLIFT</person>,

Sec. Province of Quebec Association of Architects.



The President: I think if anything was wanting to warrant the action we have taken, it is the unanimous call for registration throughout the Province. Nearly every architect, I think, is enrolled on our rolls and the three letters you have heard from members of the profession in the old country are also significant.

<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield </person>Was a copy of the Act sent to those gentlemen asking for it? or was a copy of the draft we got up sent? Because if they only saw the Act as it was passed they would think we were a very inferior lot of architects.

The Registrar: I may say that the correspondence with the English promoters was very full. They have not only had copies of all our proposed changes, but there have been several suggestions made by them, which have been discussed in connection with our Act.

<person>Mr. Curry</person>: The Registrar's report says the Quebec architects have applied for incorporation. I think it should go further and say that they have obtained an Act of Incorporation.

The Registrar: My report said "the movement was gaining ground."

Mr. Curry: The fact is, they have an Act of Incorporation, such as it is. I have looked over it.

The President : In Quebec?

Mr. Curry :	Certainly. Passed by the last Legislature. I have the Act. I did not read it over closely.

A member: It is about as good as our Act.

Mr. Curry: Just about, I think. It is as good as ours, think, as far as I could see.

The Registrar; I will accept the amendment.

The President: With that amendation will you adopt the report

The report was then adopted.

 CERTIFICATES AND COMPETITIONS 



The President The next business is anything arising out of the minutes or reports.

<person>Mr. Gordon </person>There were two Committees appointed—one in regard to competitions, and another one on certificates.



The Registrar I have not had reports from either of those Committees. The whole energy of the members of the Council has been directed towards the preparation of by-laws, and getting the Act into working order

Mr. Cambier-Bousfield : Will these matters be carried over till next year, or will it be necessary to move that we take the matter up again?

The President I think it would be necessary to move another resolution.

Mr. Gambier-Bousfield : I would move "That the Council be requested to take up the matter of certificates, with the object of drawing up a certificate suitable to the requirements of the architects of this Association.' One of the reasons why this matter was brought up was that there was so much dispute about the responsibility upon architects in issuing these certificates and it was suggested that the Council should get up a form for us ; and I think last year some instances were given of certificate issued in the States by some of the leading firms of architects—some of which contain a clause which states that they will not be held responsible at all for the certificate for the work done, or the quality, or its value, or its endurance.

Mr. Gordon :	I second the motion.

The President I can corroborate the Registrar's remark to the effect that the whole energies of the Council have been given to getting the Association in working order, and getting our by-laws, rules and regulations and everything of that kind in proper shape; and we overlooked this matter, so it will have to be referred again to us. The original resolution reads "That the new Council be requested to consider a model form of certificate, and the issue of the same to members of the Association." It was moved by Mr. Gambier-Bousfield, seconded by Mr. Gordon. What is your mind regarding this new motion?

Mr. Curry:	I think the matter should be discussed. I think when a motion is made the mover and seconder should give some reasons for bringing it forward, and that the matter should be discussed so that the Council should know the views of the Convention, and should get suggestions. (Applause).

<person>Mr. Aylsworth</person>:	Would it not be well for the Council - without spending too much time to issue a form and send to each member of the Association, then wait for their criticism or suggestions before making it final?

<person>Mr. Edwards</person>: 1 don't see the object of the resolution. There are certain responsibilities which an architect cannot avoid. I fail to see the point that is to be attained.

Mr. Gambier-Bousfield:	The reason I did not say more about this matter was that I thought it was discussed last year. The great question to-day is as to the value of an architect's certificate—what value is it? Some contractors deposit such certificates in their banks, and then the banks collect from the

