<doctype type="colophon">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

			PRICE 20 CENTS

	VOL IV.—No. II.	TORONTO AND MONTREAL, CANADA, FEBRUARY, 1891.	 $2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,

(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD),



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD SATURDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANUFACTURERS

OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



<firm>C. H. MORTIMER</firm>, Publisher,

14 King Street West,	- TORONTO, CANADA.

62 TEMPLE BUILDING, MONTREAL.



 Subscriptions.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages paid.



ADVERTISEMENTS

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.

	EDITOR'S	ANNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is 'published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.





The "Canadian Architect and Builder" is the official paper of the <assoc>Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec</assoc>



The publisher desires to ensure the regular and prompt delivery of this Journal to every subscriber, and requests that any cause of complaint in this particular be reported at once to the office of publication. Subscribers who may change their address should also give prompt notice of same, and in doing so, should give both the old and new address.





<assoc>THE City Council of Toronto </assoc>will endeavor to obtain legislation which will empower the city to regulate the erection of scaffolds and buildings. So far as the erection of scaffolds is concerned, there is no reason to change the belief formerly expressed on this subject, viz., that no system of inspection of reasonable cost would be likely to prove satisfactory. There is undoubtedly required more thorough inspection of buildings under construction and we might add, a greater degree of efficiency in the enforcement of the powers already at the city's disposal.



IT is satisfactory to observe that the suggestion made in a recent number of this journal regarding the enlargement of the space for traffic at the corner of King and Yonge streets, is engaging the attention of the Toronto civic authorities. The desirability of carrying out the suggestion was presented to the members of the <assoc>Parks and Gardens Committee</assoc> by the Chairman, <person>AId. Score</person>, at a recent meeting. It is hoped that while circumstances are so favorable, definite action will be taken to relieve the congestion of traffic at this point. A very few years will suffice to demonstrate the wisdom of such action.





THE cost of scotia block pavement in Canada is in the neighborhood of $40,000 per mile. One-half this amount is said to be represented by freight and duty on the imported article. Tons of the material required to manufacture these blocks is lying waste at Sudbury, Ont., consequently there would seem to be ground for the belief that scoria blocks might profitably be manufactured and sold in Canada at one-half the cost of the imported material. Whether or not such an enterprise would pay would depend upon the willingness of towns and cities to spend $20,000 per mile in putting down a permanent pavement as compared with the cheaper, but less durable varieties. It is beyond question that by using the more expensive material they would be practising the truest economy.

THE time for receiving the competition drawings for the <building>Montreal Board of Trade building </building>closed on the first of the month, and according to a press report designs were received from five American and seventeen Canadian architects. The five men will have the advantage of a judge familiar with their style of work. We cannot understand the motive of the Building Committee in refusing to associate a Canadian referee with Mr. Hunt, and now, when the number of Canadian architects proves to be three times greater than that of the foreigners, the injustice becomes all the more palpable. We will be curious to know who the seventeen are, and presume the Ontario and Quebec associations will also.



THE contractors of Kingston have appointed a committee to labor with the architects in regard to the preparation of proper plans and specifications before being asked to submit tenders. It would appear from the account of the meeting in one of the local papers that plans were prepared somewhat on speculation, and that if the tenders did not suit, the proposed building scheme collapsed and nobody received any remuneration. The builders evidently reasoned that if the architects insisted upon being paid for their work whether the building went on or not, those people who "propose" building would be killed off. We can quite believe that an architect who had so little hope of being paid for his work would perform what he did in a perfunctory and slipshod manner and we do not wonder that the builders should " kick" when asked to tender upon indefinite and inadequate data. The whole matter rests in the hands of the architects, who if they will honorably stand by each other and insist upon being properly paid for proper work, will earn the respect of both client and contractor, instead of being the sapient tool of the one and being anathematized by the other.





THE news of the death of <person>John W. Root</person>, of Chicago, arrived too late for notice in our last issue. The Inland Architect for January is a sort of memorial number, being largely occupied with notices of himself and his works. He must certainly have been a man of wonderful energy, power and push. He was given a thorough education, both collegiate and university, and during his university course his studies were largely directed toward engineering and other sciences which would be of help to him in his chosen profession. His total office experience, gained in three different offices, was condensed into two years, upon which he launched out, with a partner of apparently no greater practice, into a practice which in a few years grew to be phenomenal. His opportunities were great, sometimes selfcreated, but nevertheless opportunities, and the wonder is how he designed as well as he did and how he contrived to escape with so comparatively few glaring mistakes. In regard to his practice, one of his memorialists says: "It had opportunity and temptation to express itself in every mood of versatility by reason of the incessant demands made upon its resources by the exigencies of a large practice. It would be a miracle indeed if, in this public exposition of an artists' inner life, illustrated by hundreds of buildings of every grade, we did not discover occasional evidences of carelessness and haste, of momentary caprice, of indifference begotten of fatigue, when his genius was off its guard. These evidences no one was so prompt as Root himself to point out and condemn."





QUITE a " breeze" has been raised in the Toronto Board of Works over the assertion of <person>Ald. Hill </person>that the city stood to lose $10,000 on account of the construction of an important sewer by day labor instead of by contract. The opinion of Aid. Hill, a contractor of many years' experience, should have great weight, despite the mass of figures quoted in apparent contravention by the Chairman of the Works Committee. The almost invariable experience of architects has been to the effect that day labor is considerably more expensive than contract work. As long as human nature is what it is, such will be the case, and especially in corporation work. From inspector to mortar-mixer, the tendency is to spin out the job, there being no deeply interested boss to insist on strict attention to business. With a purchasing

