<doctype type="text">March, 1891	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 37

openings or other interruptions of the continuity of wall surface, rendering necessary a large quantity of heating surface in a small heater, caused several Canadian firms to encourage the invention and commence the manufacture of radiators for hot water heating. These have so far been of cast iron, several of the more recent being good circulators and inferior in efficiency to box coils, wall coils or circulations only.. There are, however, wide differences in price and in results between the various kinds, the cheapest varieties, even though they may show the largest number of testimonials, not being necessarily the most scientifically constructed, and it behooves the architect to examine if possible their behavior, and to make a comparative test.
The wall coils (circulations I found most effective are 1 x 8 pipes or 1 x 6 pipes, although 2 x 8 and 2 X 6 are as frequently used owing to want of long reaches of on interrupted wall. A number of 2 X 6 and 2 x 8 wall circulations in the <building>Langevin block </building>at Ottawa, have each 500 feet of 1" pipe, and several of the x 8 have 300 feet. The rest form so far used, is that sometimes called a trombone coil. Taking a 1 x 8 for example, we have at one end two 4-branch headers one above the other, the supply and four of the heating pipes connected to the upper, and the return and four pipes to the lower
-the pipes of each series of four being parallel with each other, but the upper and lower series converging towards the dislal end, where they unite by semi-circular connections which afford the minimum of friction. These afford a rapid circulation, and being widely distributed, ensure more rapid diffusion of heat than can be had from closely packed stacks and clusters of pipe, or from the more widely known radiator.
In a large number of cases box coils, wall coils and radiators were used in the same building, and the difference in rapidity of flow of water in these three species complicated the problem, and sometimes brought about unexpected results --e.g., g., of the risers, those to an upper floor, and of heaters, the wall coils, had the best circulation; and as the radiators (the slowest circulations) were usually situated on the ground floor, whence the water had less tendency than to the upper floors, the ground floor had two factors against a good circulation, while the upper floor had the willingness of the water to rise, and the advantage of the best circulating heaters in their favor.
A series of rules for computing quantities of heating surface proportionate to the given cubic contents, can be had in any of the books on heating, but in this climate, an architect soon learns to use them merely as a basis for departure. Conditions vary so much, that even if ibis paper were a general one, there would not be space enough for its general consideration; but the conditions in the case of one ordinary post office are so nearly 'those of another, that once a quantity is found productive of content in one, the same is used in the others. So far a proportion of five lineal feet of one inch pipe (1 2/3 square feet of heating surface) to each 100 cubic feet of space, has been found sufficient in rooms having but one side so the weather, provided the circulation be good. When two or more sides are exposed, the heating surface is increased 1% for every 2% in surface outside wall. Where wall coils or circulations not more than 8 pipes high and 1 pipe wide are used, a very considerable reduction in the quantity of heating surface is made. The glass surface formula usually given by <person>Baldwin</person>, <person>Schumann</person> and others, is also taken into consideration.
In open stairways a liberal allowance on the ground floor, very little on the first floor, and none on the attic, seems good practice. Corridors which do not abut on the outside wall require a very small amount of surface, not more than 1 ft. lineal of 1" pipe (1/3 of heating surface) per 100 cubic feet of air, a proportion which the best heating firms use. In churches and in hospital wards, double this quantity, always bearing in mind that these figures refer to a rapidly circulating plant.
The custom of carrying rising mains between studding in partitions and in chases out in walls, was early abandoned in practice in public building. Pipes when carefully put up were found not unsightly, and the circulation better when in the room than in the walls. Moreover, they are more readily got as, and contribute a certain addition to the heating surface in the room.
The expansion tank used is-an ordinary cylindrical one of galvanized iron, open to the atmosphere. It has three connections-one from the bottom to the furnace, one from the top to the furnace room where it acts as a telltale when the fireman is careless enough to let the water in the apparatus boil, and one at the side to a feed tank. It is placed above all the coils, and should have, say, 1-26th or 1-28th of the contents of the apparatus, so as to have room for the amount gained by the water in expanding from the temperature of the supply to 180 or 200

The President:	I am sure we are all deeply indebted to the authors of this elaborate paper.
<person>Mr. Helliwell</person>:	I would like to move a vote of thanks for the paper we have just heard.
<person>Mr. Symons</person>:	I have much pleasure in seconding that.
<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield</person>: This is a technical paper that I am sure we would all be delighted to study at leisure, in conjunction with the plans. I would therefore ask <person>Mr. Billings </person>if he would kindly leave the paper in the hands of the editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, who wishes to reproduce all these papers. I heartily concur in the vote of thanks.
Mr. Billings:	I will be very happy to leave the paper. There must be architects in the west here who have had considerable experience in hot water heating. The Department of Public Works in Ottawa is the only one I know that gets up a full specification for heating. I understand that the Treasury Department at Washington supply blue plans-or at least white plans made by the same process--to the different firms who tender for heating.
<person>Mr. Edwards </person>:	I am rather surprised that they find five feet of inch pipe to the hundred sufficient down in the colder section. In our practice we have for the lower flat eight, and, if very much exposed, ten feet to the hundred ; for the upstairs we use six and I have not found at any time that it has been at all extravagant in the abundance of pipe.
Mr. Bousfield:	I understood Mr. Billings to have said that that would probably be the minimum, because his calculations were based upon a rapidly flowing system.
Mr. Billings:	Oh, yes. If you have a large building and a cast-iron furnace you won't certainly produce anything of that kind. The great thing, of course, is to return as rapidly as possible. We use much larger furnaces than you use here---ordinary wrought iron ones.
The vote of thanks was carried heartily.
<person>Mr. Burke</person>:	How do you account for the tremendous difference in results in different buildings?
Mr. Billings :	It is very often due to the amount of external
wall surface ; there are other factors, but that is the chief, There are lots of problems to be worked out. The Montreal engineers experimented a great deal on the convents--those long, rambling buildings-and the difference between the old and new buildings of the <building>Ville Marie Convent</building>-one heated by steam and the other by hot water---was a saving in the latter of over thirty per cent., and very much better heat.
<person>Mr. Burke </person>:	Do you use indirect heating in your system?
Mr. Billings:	No; it is all direct. Indirect heating in a cold climate is no use. We can hardly leave it to the caretaker employed on a small building to ventilate the building.
Mr. Townsend:	Is there any supply of air more than that which comes in by doors and windows?
Mr. Billings: No; but in the post office you don't want any more than conies in through the doors--that has been our great trouble; we have too much air in the day time. The air is all right at night when there is electric light ; but where you have gas naturally you have bad air.
<person>Mr. Curry</person>: There are so many factors in the question of heating that it is a very difficult question to show which is the the better plan by mere statement. As far as I can see, it is almost impossible to make a fair comparison as between systems; the question has not been solved, and will not be for some time. I think, all things considered, that you must get better value from your fuel passing through the steam boiler than through the hot water boiler. Your boiler is at a higher temperature, and is therefore more likely to burn the gases than in the hot water apparatus. In the latter, in ordinary circumstances, the temperature is not high enough to consume the gases fully, and you consequently must lose that amount of heat value. (Hear, hear). Then, again, if you burn the fuel and convey it to different parts of the building, why should the one be so much more economical than the other? 1 will admit that for small houses hot water is more serviceable. For large buildings it is a question that depends very largely on circumstances, and on the person putting in the apparatus. There is no doubt that in a small room with one radiator in it, steam is rather a nuisance unless it can be regulated in some way, and water is very much nice to heat it.; but again, you require such a large amount of hot water heating surface that it becomes in man)' cases a nuisance. You cant have a room full of coils ; you want to put some furniture in. (Laughter.) What I would like to know is, what has been done in a fair spirit to find out the relative value of the two systems? This question of a man experimenting with a thing to prove what he believes is all a mistake-he generally does prove what he does believe; and so it goes on. Then again, as far as hot water heating is concerned, apparently the Department have not made any use of indirect heating. I think in this country hot water heating with an indirect system is almost impossible, unless you have a man up day and night who can watch the different dampers and close the heat here and there, and close off the air, and other things. It would be almost impossible to prevent occasional freezing of the pipes, and consequently repairs ; whereas with steam it is possible to heat a building on an indirect system very comfortably-far ahead of hot water in my opinion, and with comparatively little care. It has been done, and has given great satisfaction; and what has been done can be done again. As to fuel, I know that indirect steam beating requires a large amount, as it necessarily must when you bring in fresh air and warm it up ; but you have the advantage of fresh air, whereas with hot water it is the same thing as stoves, heating the old air over and over again, and the amount of :tir you generally get in from crevices--which generally comes in from the windward side, and is allowed to pass out of the building to the leeward side. What I would like to know is, whether the Department have made the attempt to find out by actual comparison the difference in the value of the heaters as manufactured here and also in the States ; and also if they have made any test on a fair basis as between steam and hot water heating?
Mr. Billings The trouble in following Mr. Curry is that he has gone into the whole question of heating. Before going into the matter, all the best plants in the Dominion had been carefully examined, and all the work previously done by the Department gone into; tables had been kept as to the consumption of coal, and so on. There is nothing against indirect heating with hot water any more than there is with steam. As to the results with coal, you don't get any results at all with steam until you get steam whereas with hot water, the very minute the water is even a fraction of a degree over the temperature of the room, you are beginning to gain the heat; that is one of the points on which you can count. Excuse me if I don't recollect all the things you have said, Mr. Curry, (laughter) but it was a very wide speech. So far as the different kinds of radiators are concerned, they have been very carefully tested. We have seen the lest of the different kinds, but of course we would not care to say anything about it here. As you say very rightly, wall circulations take up a great deal of room; but still, on the wall, where they are only one pipe wide, they are not so very much in the way. You can put a cap or moulding over them so that anything being pushed hack won't strike them. I read in Mechanics of a very interesting test last whiter in New Jersey, where they built two green-houses and put the same quantities of pipe in both. After laying the fire we find one great advantage in favor of hot water is, that we don't require to fire more than once every twelve hours; a man does not require

