<doctype type="text">rental or purchase of land or premises, or for the building of premises to serve as offices, examination halls, libraries, museums, or for any other public purpose connected with architecture.

19. It shall he the duty of the secretary to keep the register in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and the by-laws, orders, and regulations of the Council,

All deeds of the Association shall be signed by the president and secretary and sealed with the common seal of the Association.

20. This Act shall come into force on the day of its sanction.



<article title="hot water warming in dominion buildings during the past ten years" author="billings, walter and ewart, d.">HOT WATER WARMING IN DOMINION BUILDINGS DURING

THE PAST TEN YEARS.*

BY <person>D. EWART </person>AND <person>WALTER R. BILLINGS</person>,

THE authors of this paper advance no claim for originality or novelty, it being prepared merely to attempt to convey to the Association an outline of some of the practice adopted in warming the various Dominion buildings with hot water plants.

The relative merits of hot water and steam as warming. agents cannot be gone into here. They were fully considered by the chief architect who more than ten years ago satisfied himself on that point, and since then the <building>Dominion buildings </building>have almost invariably been heated with hot water, excepting when the intermittent use of the building or where the use of machinery therein rendered steam more advisable, and in such few buildings as the Smead-Dowd system or the use of wood stoves were preferable.

Nearly 100 buildings ranging in size from small village post offices to the Langevin block at Ottawa, have been successfully heated by warm water, and we will at once proceed to give you an idea of the class of plant so far adopted.

Among furnaces, the wrought iron pipe furnace, invented forty years ago by a veteran hot water heating engineer of Montreal, to whom the excellence of the modern direct hot water heating apparatus is mainly due, stands first too quick circulation, durability, and economy of fuel. The successful practice of the firm inaugurated by this engineer, shown throughout the breadth of Canada and the northernmost States of the American Union in heating long, extended and rambling buildings, such as convents and asylums, satisfactorily, and with a lower expenditure of fuel than could be obtained from low-pressure steam plants in buildings of precisely the same character, at a time when steam heating engineers were wont to assert that hot water could not he distributed throughout long low buildings, evenly and economically, was largely due to the kind of furnace employed, and could not so readily have been obtained with the Cornish, the Tubular, the Saddle, or any of the cast iron sectional furnaces then in the market.

Owing to prime cost of the pipe furnace and its need to be built in brickwork the chief architect has used some of the excellent sectional heaters now in the market for small and medium sized buildings of compact layout; but in all others where anthracite coal is used, the wrought iron pipe furnace is first favorite.

Where the use of bituminous coal is more economical than anthracite the pipe furnace chokes too rapidly, and the more sluggish or less rapidly circulating wrought iron tubular as well as the cast iron sectional furnaces are used for the large and small buildings respectively. The tubular furnace differs from the steam cylindrical boiler only in having the steam space as well as the water space filled with tubes. It is built in brickwork, the grate under the proximal end, the flame and gases of combustion passing backward under the shell to a chamber behind the distal end, returning from thence to a second chamber at the proximal end, and passing finally either backward over the shell to the chimney, if the draught be good enough, or passing at once into the smoke pipe, in the case of the draught being a medium one. In these cylinders the tubes have usually been 3" but the experience of the Department would indicate that 4" tubes would not be too large.

The advantages of the cast iron sectional furnace is its relative small size and cost, and that it does for both bituminous and anthracite coal. In the smallest buildings no main larger than 2" is required, so that these furnaces as manufactured are ready to set up, but in medium sized buildings where larger mains were required, and in those cases where twin furnaces were considered preferable to single ones, headers for the connection of the mains had to be provided.

In some cases where a single furnace is used, its sudden failure in cold weather may be a serious matter, especially if the furnace become entirely disabled in a town where a duplicate furnace cannot be at once obtained. In the case of a greenhouse, such a case is worse than its occurrence in an official building, but, in any case, the want of heat even for a few days is a serious matter, besides the trouble to the officials. It would be a serious matter to the caretaker who lives on the premises and whose sole means of heating would then be his cooking stove. Failures, however, are  extremely rare occurrence, and in case of a pipe furnace, seldom serious, being usually the breaking of a cast iron connection, when plugging the pipe is all that is necessary, until a titter can be had, To guard against the disagreeable probabilities referred to, twin furnaces are sometimes used with advantage—in which case the headers are connected with both furnaces, the connections having gate valves so arranged that one or both furnaces can he used as required.

For the piping, wrought iron pipe has been used throughout, even the stacks of piping at <building>the greenhouse of the Central Experimental Farm</building> being of this kind. All pipe fittings and the furnace headers are, however, cast iron.

In the arrangement arid layout of the mains, what may be called the direct



* Paper read at the Third Annual Convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>.

system, i. e., that which offers the shortest distance and easiest 110w to and from the heating surface, is used. The flow and return mains are counterparts, and go side by side. In no case has the system sonie architects adopt of having a separate flow and return from the furnace to each heating tract been used, although, in some cases, one or more mains are taken off the header exclusively for the use of the ground floor. When separate mains, as aforesaid, are used for supply of ground floor heating surface, they are always taken off rnidlength of the header, where the circulation is more lively, the mains of the upper floors taking the outside, and, in a

storey building of the ordinary departmental type, owing to the less rapid circulation of the water to and greater height of ceiling in the ground floor, the total sectional area of the main or mains of that floor at the header

equal to that of the first and second floors combined, leaving all 1-storey annexes out of the question. In the cases referred to, where the ground floor mains are separate from those of other floors, the two upper floors are served from the same horizontal mains, but in all cases, whether the risers are all taken from one main, or whether the risers of the ground floor have a separate main, the first and second floors are taken from the same sets of risers. These risers are straight from bottom to top, the upper run being diminished in sectional area at the point where the connection of the lower tract of heating surface is taken off. the practice of taking the upper run off a side branch of a T below the connection to the valve of the lower tract of heating surface is never used. However, in nearly all cases the horizontal mains in the basement are trunks of which all the risers are branches, those serving the ground floor being devoted to it alone, while as stated in the foregoing, the others may each serve two floors.

The relative sizes of hot water mains, branches and connections, both horizontal and rising, require some working out, Schumann and other standard writers give the rule ' The sectional area of a branch pipe must equal the areas of all the connections, and the area of a main pipe must equal the area of all branches. The fallacy of this view is easily demonstrated, for as the internal surface, and consequently the friction, is proportionately much greater in smaller than in larger pipes, consequently these need not have proportionately so large a sectional area as those. In proof of this I subjoin a table giving in one column the amount of heating surface in square feet, for the several sizes of connections, based on a proportionate increase from the standard of 50' to a 1" pipe connection, and in the other, the amounts used in good practice with quick circulating furnace and evenly circulating pipes:





The foregoing list is not offered as a carefully worked out scheme, but as an indicator of the fallacy of direct proportions. In the early days, some of the public buildings were piped on the rule found in most manuals, but with disadvantage, and it became evident that no table could be exclusively followed.

A large heating firm has in one plant a six inch main supplying 30,000 lineal feet of 1" pipe (10,000') in heating surface, circulating well, whilst in another plant where the length of the main is greater, 7,000 lineal feet of 1" pipe (2,334') is all that can be circulated well on a main of that size. Another example by the same firm—the plant at the McGill University, Montreal, has a 2 1/2 inch main circulating lineal feet of 1" pipe in heating surface.

The intention in laying out an apparatus is to arrange the branches of the main in such a manner that all will circulate evenly, and if the rise is for the supply of upper flats and the easily flowing wall coils could be taken from the distal end of the horizontal main, and those for the ground floor and the cast iron radiators could be placed at the proximal end, being careful in both cases to calculate the individual instances at their exact proportionate rate of circulation, the matter would be an easy one; but as the occurrence of such a case falls little short of a fairly average miracle we do not take it into account, and various shifts have in consequence to be made to get over the difficulties in carrying out many of which we are dependent on the skill of the fitter employed. For instance, when it can be helped we must not take off many branches in the same neighborhood, and on no occasion take off the main a quick circulating and a sluggish branch close together. In the latter case, where the two neighbors are flows, one will rob the other, and if they are returns, the one containing the warmer water returning with back up the other and thus obstruct the circulation of the heating tract connected with it.

The custom has been to take all branches off the top of the horizontal mains, but occasionally, as a check, a branch is taken off the side of the mains.

The practice is to allow a radiator valve both to the flow and the return of each radiator or coil. For all ground flow surface and for any riser which returns or teeds but one coil on any upper floor, only the flow valve is connected to the radiator, while the return valve is placed in the cellar with the draw off valve beside it, in order that the single heating tract may be conveniently emptied without disturbing others—a convenience which must be foregone in the case of one riser feeding or returning more than one radiator or coil, as in such a case, all the heating surface served by the return pipe must be emptied at once. The ordinary peet valve is used on all mains, headers and branches, and wherever a valve is needed, excepting on supply connections of ground floor and attic heating surface, and to any heating tract which is the last on the riser, in all of which exceptions globe angle valves are more suitable as well as cheaper.

The best kind of heating surface to employ is a matter of great importance, and one which should be decided before the arrangement and sizes of piping and the quantity of heating surface can be decided on, In the public buildings it was a matter presenting some difficulties.

In steam heating practice, effective radiators such as the Nason, <person>Walworth</person> et al, which are attractive in appearance, economical of floor area, and rapid in returning the water to the boiler, were in the market at figure which ensured their use in preference to box coils, the appearance of which has always been their only drawback. Ten years ago the so-called hot water radiator known to the profession was sluggish in action and possessed of but one inlet, being used by heating engineers who where educated to the use of the now almost obsolete one ppe system. Naked box coils, although excellent circulators, were objected to in some of the more pretentious buildings and in order to hide them, cast iron screens and marble slabs were used, thus destroying their efficiency—hindering the circulation of air about the pipes, and affording a receptacle for dust, always difficult to remove, and the removal of which was frequently neglected owing to its being out of sight These difficulties as well as that, in some cases, the exigencies of limited wall space in stairway halls and in rooms of large area having many

