<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	March, 1891



qolts. Dormers to be according to details and to have casement sash with drip and water bar, to be properly hung and fastened with spring catches and brass bolt. lit to four windows in west elevation 1 3/8 in. outside s'en etians properly hung and fastened. Prepare four windows in front elevator for WilIer sliding blinds with all necessary stops. fillets blocks, etc., complete. That on ground floor will be made to slide in pockets, behind window hack, and covered with hinged flap. Entrance door to have 6 in. x in rebated and moulded frame, 2 in. staff bead: and 2 in. rounded o'sk sill riour to he in. oak veneered on outside, paneled and moulded and pre pared with mouldings above for glazing, to be hung with three 5 in. loose butt bronze hinges, and furnished with hall door lock of the value of $3 ant having in. bronze knobs. Vestibule doors to be 2 1/8 in. paneled ant moulded below, and prepared with mouldings above for glass, doors hung in rebated and moulded jambs with three p. irs of 4 in. loose butt bronze hinges. and furnished with 4 in. America in rebate mortise locks, brass bolts keys, bronze knobs and furniture, 9 in. bronze flush bolts. Back porch door to be r 3/4 paneled and bead flush, hung on 6 in. x 3 in. rebated ant chamfered jarubs, having 2 in. oak sill, to be properly hung and furnished with Carpenters' rim lock, white furniture and 8 in. barrel bolts, hinged and bolted fanlight. Side porch door to be similar, but to have ball door lock o the value of $2 porcelain and plated furniture. The doors to the two p in cipal floors to be 1 3/4 paneled and moulded and hung to 1 3/4 in. rebated jambs. Doors to principal rooms, ground floor, to he hung and furnished as specified for vestibule doors, those to first floor to be sung with 4 in. loose butt Berlin bronze hinges and furnished with 4 in. American mortisc locks, brass bolts and keys, and porcelain and plated furniture. Sliding doors to have proper overhead track, and to be furnished with Clarke's patent hangers, and with sliding door lock and flush handles. 'The other doors throughout (unless otherwise specified) to be in. paneled ant moulded, hung with 4 in. loose butts so 1 3/8 in. loose jambs, and furnisher with American mortise locks, brass bolts and porcelain and plated furniture two doors in attic to have pivoted fanlights. Closet doors to be 1 3/8 moulded one side. furnished with locks and furniture to correspond with other floors. Doors marked "swing" to be 1 in. thick hung with nickel plated Chicago spring hinges, and furnished with porcelain finger plates, both sides, and brass holts. Opening marked '' curtains will not have doors but to be prepared for them, with rebated jambs, casings, etc. Doors in basement to the e/s in. batten in 1 1/8 in. jambs, having stops planted on hung with 4 in. butts, and furnished wish rim locks and mineral furniture. Architraves on ground floor main building to be 5 1/2 in. double faced with band moulding. Architraves no first floor lobe similar 4 1/2 in. wide. Architraves in small rooms, passages. kitchen, attic, etc., to be 4 in. moulded with plain chamfered blocks. Put 2 1/2 in. picture mould at spring of cove in drawing room. Windows, except those to two principal rooms, ground floor, to have 1 1/2 in. moulded window boards, bed moulds and moulded aprons. Windows of drawing and dining rooms to have paneled and moulded window tacks. Front steps so have turned nesvels, moulded rail and balustrade as shown, treads tobe 1 3/4 in., and slatted. Kitchen pantry to be fitted up with six tiers of 1 in. dressed and beaded shelving supported on proper bearings. Fit up dressers in kitchen and service pantry, having el/s in. paneled and moulded doors, properly hung and fastened, in. beaded shelving—lower portion to be wider and to have drawers anti cupboards below, having properly hinged and fastened doors, all according to detail; top of wider portion of dresser will be finish with top of sink, and to be of hardwood grooved for drainer. Bed room closets to have beaded shelves as shown, in, beaded rail and strong bronzed metal hooks, p in. apart. Provide 30 feet of headed rail with hooks 9 in. apart, to be placed where directed, also ion feet of shelving on bearers, all in addition to that specified for closets. Hanging shelf in larder tobe of 1 3/8 in stuft, suspend. ed from ceiling with fosir 1/2 in. wrought iron rods. Fit up two tiers of in. shelving at each end of larder on proper supports. Linen closet to base wide shelves six in height, at ends, and enclose those at one end with hinged cedar fronts, fastened with spring catches. The steps in back porch to he of pine 1 3/4 in. treads, 1 in. risers, 2 in. strings, rounded rail, bar balusters and chamfered newels. l"it sip stands for kitchen and cellar sinks svith hard wood capping. Do all necessary attendance and fitting for bath, basin and water closets (not including plumbers' work). Case plumbers' work where required 'with narrow sheeting hinged and bolted at front. 'the capping of bath and lids and seats of w. c. 's to be of cherry the latter supported on rounded brackets; w. e. 's to have double lids for slop sink. Front of bath to be of same sheeting as specified for room; paneled, hinged and bolted doors :o front of basin. Provide all necessary boxing and headed runs to pipes; do any necessary cutting for plumber. W. c. in cellar to be enclosed with sheeting, and batten door, and Hong and furnished as other basement doors. Door to he kept 6 in. from floor and ceiling. Borrowed light as shown, Put 2 in. planking in yard at doorway. as shown on 4 in. x 4 in. cedar sleepers. Form slatted walks as shown with 2 in x 2 1/2 in. dressed stuff, dressed bree sides, on 4 in. x 3 in. cedar sleepers; put rounded curb at edges of that o main entrance. Put side gates shown formed with narrow pickets, and strong framing hung with strong T hinges and furnished with wrought iron thumb latch, bolt and padlock, dressed and rounded cedar posts, footed, and having chamfered head piece. Erect short piece of picket fence 6 feet ugh on sooth side so harmonize with gate, also a short piece on north side of porch. Fuel bins to be constructed of 2 in. horizontal planking, strongly ailed to 4 in. x 4 in. posts extending from floor to ceiling; the front to be made to slide in grooves for removal if necessary. Construct cold and fresh in ducts of dry s in. matched stuff with hinged valve, which will close inlet from floor when opening that from outside. Carpenter to attend on other rades in the execution and for the perfect completion of the work.



<article title="slater" author="">SLATER.



Line valleys with galvanized iron 15 in. wide, increasing to t8 in. near foot Joints to be soldered where in danger of snow backing up water, and to have 4 in lap in other places. Cover ridges, etc., with No. 28 iron. Step and cloak flash against all walls, chimneys and checks and apron of ormer. Put strip of galvanized iron in wide, 3 in. on roof and 2 in. rip over back of gutter, well secured. Cover fiat of cornice over three windows on first floor with galvanized iron, lapped. tacked and soldered, and turned up 6 in. behind tiling. Cover the sloping roof, including back room and checks of dormer, with best quality of Canadian roofing slate oia the Rockland quarries of about 20 in x 11 to. size, and having double courses at eaves. Slates to be laid on heavy felt provided and laid by aser. All exposed portions of dormer to be carefully covered with felt well piped. Cover east and south gables as shown with Dancy's. Ontario, or :her equally approved tiles, or good rich, dark red color, well secured to alit, and laid on heavy felt, well lapped and tacked.



 TINSMITH



Put in. eave troughs of galvanized iron to eaves of back porch, and 5 do. to cay s of house of No. 28 gauge iron. Gutters to be stiffened

with 7-16 in. x 7-16in. wro't iron hars and well secured to rafters, andtobave backs carried up to slates. Pitt tree (3) stacks of in. octagon down pipes house and one in. to hack porch, all to be of the very best iron No. 28 gauge, approved brand, properly connected with gutters, secured to walls with iron holdfasts. and extending to surface of grotind and there connected

with drain pipes with proper caps to pipes. Carry 3 10. down pipes from gutters on south gable so main eaves.

PLUMBER AND GAS FITTER.



Lay on through hotise best tested iron piping, beginning with 1 1/4 in. at meter, and connected with various points marked on plans with letters P for peurlants and B for brackets, nipples left capped ready for fixtures. Pipes to diminish according to position to c in., 3/4 in., and 1/2 in., all to be thoroughly tested. Drop lights to be taken out of the side of supplies and all supplies to brackets to rise from supply below, and in no case to drop front pipes overhead. Lay on separate supply from separate meter, to two fire-places on ground floor and to gas-stove in kitchen, beginning with 3/4 in. and diminishing to 1/2 in. Provide cocks with keys at fire-places. Lay on water to sinks, bath, basin and water closets with 1/2 in. 6 lbs. lead supply. Service from street line to line of branches to fixture to be 5/8 in. 8 lbs. lead. Provide hose connection at window of furnace room, with key cock, and provide stop and waste cock near floor, Put 3/4 in. brass stop and waste cock immediately inside wall of house, and all pipes to be graded to this point. Fit up its bath room best No. 14 gauge, tinned and planished cop. per bath 6 ft. long, with 1/2 in 6 lbs. lead, hot and cold supply, and best heavy plated Fuller double bath cocks, plated rose and 1 1/2 in. overflow,  in. waste, Dubois trap. and brass trap screw, and plated plug and chain. Wash basin of best marbled earthenware, oval, and having Motts standing waste, 1 1/4 in. counter sunk marble top, c in hack and end, 12 in high, heavy plated Fuller cocks, 14 in hot and cold lead supply and 1 1/2 in. lead waste. Dubois trap and brass trap screw, Basin to be attached to marble top by nicans of br ss clamps. Provide and fit up on first floor an all por. celain flushing rinse wash-out closet, equal in value to the Indoor Unitas, with lead lined tank, having brackets, valves, supply, overflow, baIl cock. &c., complete. Provide porcelain drip tray. Soil pipe to be 4 in. of east iron carried front drain 2 f et beyond wall to 4 feet above roof at point ol exit and to down pipes at surface of ground, to be coated both sides with e altar and joints carefully caulked with oakum and lead. Dig for these pipes and replace earth properly leveled, and cart away surplus if any. Pipe to be of weight called for in city bylaw. Provide all necessary traps and hand-holes, with brass cleaning screws as shown. Foot of soil pipe will be supported Ott brick pier built by mason. Carry 2 in. east iron waste from kitchen sink along ceiling of cellar to main soil pipe. supported on wro't iron bangers. Carry a in. cast iron vent pipe from basement closet connecting to soil pipe above highest fixture (in bath room), sod leave connections for vents from the various traps as required. The in soil pipe to be enlarged to 6 in. above roof line, and to have open mouthed top. Carefully flash on to roof with t6 oz. copper, into hub which must be kept clear of roof. W. c. in basement to be a flushing rim, cane ware wash out with in. trap, siphon, cistern, etc., complete. Ventilate from seas to special flue in laundry with 3 in. galvanized iron pipe. Put a 7 in. diameter enameled salve register in vent flue near ceiling of bathroom. Put a 9 in. X 12 in, nameled valve register near ceiling of kitchen into vent flue. Ventilate drain by means of a in. cast iron pipe connect to drain and carried 2 1/2 feet above finished ground line with return bend top. Putt under bath and wash basin on first floor proper safes of lbs. lead with 3/4 in. waste, with brass flap valve on the same emptying over kitchen sink. Carry proper safes under all pipes crossing ceilings. Safe under w. c. on first floor to be of marble, 1 1/4 in. thick and countersunk; put brass strainer on outlet of waste and connect to other safe wastes. Fit up in kitchen best galvan. iced iron sink 2 ft. 6 in. long, with brackets and enamelled back and having 1 1/2 in. heavy lead waste with Dubois trap, and brass trap screws and hot and cold supply of 1/2 in. lead pipe with brass Fuller cocks, Fit up in kitchen as back of stove on proper stand a heavy galvanized iron round topped cylinder of 40 gallons capacity, with 5/8 in. heavy lead hot and cold supply, 3/4 in. brass connections with stove in kitchen with shut-off cock; connect to stove with t in. iron pipe. Cylinder to have 3/4 in. sediment pipe and cock at bottom ; also place 34 in. stop cock on supply pipe. Boiler to be supplied from pressure; provide combined safe and vacuum valve. Fit up small east iron sink in cellar, having 1 1/2 in. lead waste, trapped and supplied as other sink Overflow' pipe from basin and bath to be branched into dip of traps from same, Make all necessary Y branelses for work as required, all waste pipes to have vents of 1 1/2 in. and 2 in. lead pipe, carried into 3 in. pipe before mentioned. Vents for w. e. 's to be 3 in diameter. Provide and fix from hail near head of main stairs to kitchen a proper tin speaking tube, with silver plated mouth pieces, etc., complete. All to be left complete and perfect in every particular. All work to be in conformity with city by laws.

PLASTERER 

Inner face of all outside walls, including attic, to be well rendered with best hair mortar after being built and beror.' battening is executed, and make thoroughly tight also between all joists. etc., entering therein, also about all door and window frames. Floors at gable in attic to be deafened with mortar in thick. Lath the partitions ceilings. soffius of stairs and other places prepared for is thing, with the best sawn pine laths, s its, wide for ceilings and 1 1/4 in. for walls. 5-16 in apart. ends butted and joints broken every c8 in. Outer walls will he battened for lathing. Porch will not be plastered. Plastering to be of the best two coat work hard white finish lab. The ceilings of cellars throughout to have two coats bard white finish. The first coat of plaster in all cases to be continued behind skirt-logs, trimmings, etc. Form slightly rounded corners to all projecting angles to principal rooms and hail on ground anti first floors. Simple cove in drawing room springing from wooden picture mould. Plaster cornice in dining room to be 24 in, girth, in ball 20 10., and its vestibule 15 in, Put 2 1/2 ft. moulded centres to dining and drawing rooms, and 18 in diameter to ball. Form simple molded h"ams in ground and first floors as shown by dotted lines. Twice lime whiten walls of cellars, The while to be executed with the best description of materials and workmanship and to be left sound anti perleet after making good after other trades Plasterer to remove rubbish and broom out floors on completion. Leave woodwork clean and ready for painter.

<article title="painter and glazer" author="">PAINTER AND GLAZIER

The whole of the internal and external dressed woodwork usually painted and except where otherwise specified, including outside steps and slatted walks, and dressed fence and gate to be painted three coats of white lead and linseed oil paint of approved tints. The work to be properly knotted and stopped. and well rubbed down after first and second coats. The woodwork of ground and first floors tobe stained, oiled and twice varnished with best copal varnish. Treads and risers of main and back stairs to be stained and twice oiled. No inside blinds to be too led in tender. Outside venetians to four rear windows to lie painted three coats after priming. The visible galvanized iron work to be painted three coats. Except where otherwise specified, the whole at the windows and fanlights, glass doors, etc., to be glazed with double diamond star glass, selected free from flaws and defects, to be well positioned and back puttied, and bradded, the whole of the sashes to lie primed before glazing. Glaze lour windows on east elevation with 1/4 in. polished plate glass, and the stoall square lights of east windows in attic with rolled cathedral glass of selected tints. The glass in fuel doors to be 1/8 in. rough rolled plate secured with stops. Other glass in cellar to

