<doctype type="text">38	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER March, 1891



to run and see whether his fire is all right and his gauge-cocks are all right and f about the same heat is wanted it will go on all right without any trouble to anybody, In the test I referred to, the same quantity of pipe was used, and they got 26 in favor Of hot water That is the only test I have seen recorded. It seemed satisfactory enough, hut still it would not be an answer to everything. I was not sure whether <person>Mr. Curry </person>said that you could leave steam heating apparatus and it would be perfectly safe it night.

Mr. Curry:	1 know there are two steam plants in this city which can be kept in running eight hours without touching.

<person>Mr. Edwards</person>	lb it is low pressure steam

Mr. Curry:	Yes

<person>Mr. Billings </person>I have e seen an apparatus in Ottawa run for eighteen hours, bit of course a man couldn't do it every time.

Mr. Curry:	it is riot a mare thing to have our hot water radiators caught in closed positions—vestibules, or where the pipes come tip near outside walls partly through the great change in temperature

Mr. Billings XX c don't put other pipes in walls we keep them in the room It is very easy to freeze pipes, I know. Of course there tic all kinds of objections against hot water and there are objections against steam. Still, I would very much rather hear any questions on the practice we have been using, than any relative e differences between hot water .in steam. It is really those who ho have made tip their minds that hot water is best that we intended more to speak to. There are no better judges, I think of whether in an ordinary building, one kind of heating is better than another, than the nuns. They like to be warm and they are in the house all the time. and I have spoken to a number of those that are in command of the heating apparatus, and I never yet found any of them that believed steam to be better. The Superior of the Providence Nuns, in Montreal, came from Boston and she got <person>Mr. Wallworth </person>to put into the very large building a low pressure steam heating apparatus, which is magnificent so far as fitting and practice are concerned. When they went to build their other house, which was just about the same size, they had been making comparisons with steam, and they found the difference was over a hundred tons of coal in a building of the same size, so adopted hot water instead.



<article title="hints on estimating" author="Maginnis, Owen B.">HINTS ON ESTIMATING.

	BY <person>OWEN	B MAGINNIS</person>



WHEN figuring on special finished joiners work, as cupboard fronts, closet front, doors, dressers. etc., if in quantity, send the list to the mill for an estimate, arid add your own percentage of profit; if one or two only. figure on the time and stuff your own workmen will consume in making them and add profit. and avoid taking mill prices for shop prices, and vice versa.

If you have a job of fencing to do in the early spring, dl not make the common mistake of allowing only the ordinary time for digging the post holes. It must he remembered that the surface of the ground is impregnated with solid frost to a length averaging from 18" to 36", and it is so hard that it must lie broken with a crow-bar or pick-axe. which will take twice the time to do; therefore charge twice as much as in summer tine. Another thing, before figuring on digging of any description, survey your ground carefully, and if necessary use the boring rod to ascertain what sort of material your men will have to handle, amid estimate according to its nature and the time you know from experience it will take them to complete the job.

If a carpenter has doors to trim up to 7 6" high, which have common straight faced jambs and ordinary corner blocks, trimmed and molded casings, he can safety figure setting the jambs at 15 cents a set and trim at 15 cents a side complete, as a good mechanic will set an sets of jambs in a day and put on 25 sides of trini. Figuring wages at $2.50 per day, the bimilder will get a good profit.

A good mechanic will fit and hang 12 pine doors mu a day of teim hours, and do them right, so with wages at $2.50 per (lay, pine doors can he fitted and hung for 25 cents a piece. By following this simple method of estimating labor, any builder who knows his men may calculate his labor very safely.

Never overrate sour men, and if you are unacquainted with their capabilities as mechanics make your arrangements so that if you can't change them for better, you may not lose by their slowness or want of skill. It would he wise to select an efficient staff of rapid and accurate mechanics and retain them while it is possible to when you must lay them off retain their addresses, so that vonnias again hire them when necessary.

When approximating nails in quantity, it is wise in allow a certain percentage for poor nails bent nails, and those lost or spoiled in driving, as this always in ill cases tells

Finally, as profitable estimating consists in providing against time expenditure of time labor or material likely to he unprovided for, it is judicious to spend all the time possible in making allowance for small details which are absolutely necessary and which only involve more expense and loss if not provided for in the amount of the estimate it when sent in.

<article title="plaster and plastering" author="Gander, M.">"PLASTER AND PLASTERING."

TORONTO, February 13 1891.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR, --- I have just conic across a book in the <building>Public Library</building>, No, 1319 D, entitled Plaster amid Plastering," by <person>Hodgson</person>, and as there are a number of statements in it that are not quite correct, with your permission I will point some of them out.

'Jo be as brief as possible, I have not quoted the statements in the book that require correction, but simply it elicited the word that shows the correction. For example, on page 11 it says that "a darby is a float," so

have italiosied the word not' as follows: A darby is not a float. With the above explanation the reader will understand the corrections following:

	P.	12.	No mould will finish a mitre.

P.	17. —Laths should not be made of hemlock, as they will often twist off the ceiling.

11. 23 Very fine sand is not well suited for plastering. Burnt clay should never be used as a substitute for sand in plastering, as it is only a question of time when it will fall off.

P.	p. 27 and 28.—Mastic should not be put on with a brush, but with a

a trowel. Portland cement and chalk would be far more likely to crack

than Portland mixed with sand.

· P. 31.—Sands for floating should net be formed close together. The less you have the better, as they get dry, and when you fill in between them, the mortar shrinks and leaves a hollow space between. Any room from 12 to 80 feet would only need one screed in the centre of the ceiling in addition to one running round the angle; and for floating in the wall, if height does not exceed 14 ft., one screed at the top would do, put on horizontally, and the ground at the bottom forming the other.

P.	32 —'The floating for stucco should ant be left smooth; it should be left level and true, but a good key left in it from the rule.

P.	33.—Putty and plaster for cornices lot any other work) after getting stiff should never be wetted or knocked up to reward the setting. To do so is to kill it.

P.	37.--For outside work Plaster of Paris should never be used, but either Portland, Medina, or Roman cement.

P. 48.—The scratching for first coat of plastering on lath work should be done the same day that it is put on, and net left for three or four days. 'The second coat does not need scratching.

P.	49. --- There is no trowel used for hand floating, but a hand float.

P.	64.—Under the head of " Items," the book gives the cost of 500 yards of three coat plastering, with wages for plasterer at the rate of $3.00 per day. The total cost is $16.00 or 16 cents per yard. The conclusion is arrived at as follows:

 bushels of lime @ 30 cents		- -	-	$ 2.10

· 4-5 of a load of sand @ $1.25	-	-	1.00

 lbs. of hair @ 65 cents ( 5.85?)		-	-	3.15

 lbs. of nails @ 4 1/2 cents			-	-		-	 22

	l.athing too yards @ 2 1/4 cemits	-		- 	- 		2 25

	l.abourer 1-5th of a day -		-	-		-	 33

	Finishing. s days' work	-	-	3.00

	Making mortar and scaffolding	-	-	-

	Plastering, a coats, 1 man	of day	-	-	2.00

	$16.00

You will notice the hair is of a very fine quality if price is anything to go by. It must surely be '' Plasterers' Hair," as we sometimes see advertised, and not Cow Hair for Plasterers' Use." Then again there are no laths used. although the nails were there, and also the lather who charged his time. No putty or plaster used, and yet the plasterer finished it, or at least got paid for doing so, but it appears there was no laborer, or else he gave his time for nothing.

The beautiful simplicity of the multiplication and addition is a marvel, No wonder it was done for $16 00. As the hook has been written for the benefit of young plasterers, I think it well to call the attention of your readers to the above errors.

Yours truly,

<person>G. M. GANDER.



</person>

<article title=" PUBLICATIONS" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

A very interesting Christmas number of the Australian Builder, published at Sydney, N. S. W., has reached our table. We shall have the pleasure of receiving the Builder regularly in future.

That excellent journal, the Dominion Illustrated is steadily improving under its present energetic management, and is as steadily growing in pub. lie favor. The enlargement to 24 pages weekly afforded opportunity for great improvement in its literary contents, the contributors to which now include many well-known writers. Historic sketches, healthy fiction, crisp editorials on current topics, bright correspondence from London. New York, Toronto, and other cities. sports and pastimes, humorous sketches, etc., make up with the numerous illustrations. dealing chiefly with Canadian scenes, events and personages, a charming journal for Canadian readers. 





NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS.

IF the writer of the letter signed "Plumber," forwarded to this journal for publication, will comply with a well-known journalistic rule, by forwarding his name and address, as a guarantee of good faith, his communication will be published, We cannot print anonymous letters without knowing who are the authors.



THE CROlYIPTON SYSTEM

OF





INCANDESCENT AND ARC ELECTRIC LIGHTING, OF ENGLAND.

This system is acknowledged by all the impartial experts to be the best in the world. For isolated

Plants or Central Stations there are none superior. (lost is very low.



General Agents in Canada:

THE KEEGANS- MILNE CO.,	- -	MONTREAL.

	INTERIOR WIRING A SPECIALTY.	WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.