<doctype type="text">March, 1891	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	33



COMPETITION FOR BILL OF QUANTITIES.

Following are the specifications accompanying annexed plans in the above competition

EXCAVATOR, MASON AND BRICKLAYER.



Excavate the ground as required for the cellars, and foundation of walls, chimney breasts, glazed pipe drains, etc. All vegetable mould to be put to one side for future use as directed. Fill in and ram and use the superfluous earth in terracing and leveling the lot, or cart away, as may he directed. The excavation to be 9" larger on all sides than the building. and no filling to be done till stone walls are plastered outside and inspected. The drains marked G. P. on plans to be executed with the best vitrified salt glazed pipe (Scotch or American, laid to proper fall as may be directed, jointed in cement, with all necessary bends, junctions and traps complete. Connect with sewer in street, contractor paying all fees. Put <person>McGuire</person> cleaning not trap as shown, pipe from same to be carried to within 18" of surface and covered with stone flag. (All sewage drains inside of building will be of iron as per plumbers' specifications. Lay 3" common tile weeping drains as shown properly graded and connected to main drains behind running Ira ps as shown. Foundation walls to have footings of broad, flat stones 6" thick, projecting 4" on each side of wall above, and no stone to be less than half the total .width of footing. The walls to be carried tip to the height shown in good rubble masonry, composed of lake or other approved stone of the best quality, laid in the best prepared mortar, well built and bonded together, and having the joints on each side neatly struck with the trowel; the portion showing above ground and where lined is to he of brown Credit Valley stone in courses, neatly tip pointed in brown mortar, and having one bounder to at least every superficial yard of wall. The jambs to be tooth chiseled and to show a narrow draft on outer face. Plaster or parge outside of foundation walls from footings to finished ground line with Portland cement mortar. None but bard bricks will be allowed on the premises. Brick walls in basement to be built of bard clinker bricks, with a neat struck joint. Build in all brick walls in basement a double course of roofing slate on top of footings 1" wider than wall to prevent rising of dattip. Pier carrying front steps to be of hard clinker bricks on stone footings. The svalls from underside of cloth to be carried tip in brickwork of best hard, well-burned bricks laid in best prepared mortar. Projecting bays to he tied to main walls at every 5th course with stout hoop iron bond carried well into walls. Provide four (4) wrought iron straps 2 X 1/4" to be forked and built into brickwork, and well spiked to studding of from where prepared for tiles. The walls to be faced with the very best selected Canton or other equally approved red bricks, selected of dark color, true and straight, laid in English bond, and finished carefully with a bead tool joint in mortar colored with Cabot's or other equally approved dark brown mortar stain ; bricks to be well wetted. On completion of gutters, thoroughly clean down with acid. Inside walls of back porch to be faced with white bricks finished with neat bead tool joint. Vitro relieving arches of as least two rings over all openings of doors, windows, &c., and neat cut and pointed arches at openings as shown. Build in strips for battens at every a ft. in height in all onset walls and wherever else directed—strips so be provided by the carpenter. Beam fill on all walls to underside of foot- and roof boarding, making all spaces thoroughly tight and weather proof. Turn proper arches over fire place openings on 2 1/2" x 1/2" wrote iron camber bar, all flues to be formed circular 9" diameter, carefully built round moulds 3 ft. long, which are to he drawn up a few inches at a time as the work proceeds. Provide and build in proper galvanized iron collars to one flue in each room (except those having fire places Hues not connected with fireplaces to have proper iron soot doors in iron frames Form ash dumps from ground floor fireplaces as shown, having lion soot doors set in cast iron frames. Leave 9" X 12" opening into vent flue near ceiling of kitchen, and 7" diameter into sante flue near ceiling of bath room Chimneys to be carried it in brickwork of uniform color with projecting courses for caps. Bed in mortar all bond timbers, plates, etc and build in ill hotels, wood bricks, frames, cot stone and other work required to be set in masonry or brickwork. Support foot of iron soil pipes with 9 a 9" bock pier, three courses high. Form substratum of concrete flour with a 6 layer of clean broken stone chips, pounded flat and level. The entire cellar floor to be laid in concrete 3" thick, of Portland cement, sharp sand and coarse gravel in proper proportions, and all but laundry and back porch floated too smooth surface with a coating of Portland cement and sand 1/2" thick. Laundry and porch joists will be bedded in concrete. All hearths to see 4 1/2" brick trimmer arches and to be of concrete as specified for cellar floors. Finished hearths will be of tile provided by the proprietor. Brickwork to be built from outside scaffolding which is to be left for the rise of other trades till directed to be removed by t he architects, special care being taken to prevent walls being splashed from scaffolding. The labels and strings where shown to be one course of plinth brick, set thus: (A).



Provide and set sills of Credit Valley stone to basement windows, to be 6 in. x 9 in. and weathered; fuel doors will have wood sills. The sills to all other windows as tinted brown to be executed in the best quality of Portage Entry stone, or other approved brown stone, throated. chiseled, or rock faced, weathered and seated; rear sills may be of Ohio stone. Heads of fuel doors to be of brown stone

9 in high. Head 01 entrance door tone of Vortage Entry stone, 1 1/2 Oricks thick, cross tooth chiseled. Corbels at front pilasters to be of similar stone similarly finished. Carefully set in fine mortar and protect with boarding till the completion of the work. Bricklayer In attend on other trades in the execution and for the perfect completion of the work.



 <article title="carpenter and joiner" author="">CARPENTER AND JOINER.



The lumber for the carpenters'	work to be of good description of white pine thoroughly seasoned, free from sop, shakes, loose or large knots, or other imperfections, and in hold the full sizes shown or specified, when fixed in the building; good sound seasoned hemlock may be used for joists and rafters. The joiner's work (unless otherwise specified) to be of best description of white pine, clear and thoroughly seasoned. Inside work on ground and first floor will be varnished. Provide and fix all necessary centering and mining pieces to openings of doors and where required. Provide and fix lintels to all openings of doors and windows, cambered at top, and not less than 6" in depth at centre, and resting 6" on walls on each side. Provide strips 2 1/2" x 1/2" to be built into walls under bearings of joists and elsewhere as required for fixing skirting. trimmings of doors, windows, etc., and other finishings, and at every 2 feet in height of outer stalls, on which to nail battens. Batten all outer walls, (including attic where necessary) and elsewhere as required with 2" x 1 1/4" battens, at 16" centres—battens not to be placed till walls are parged. Porches will not be plastered. Provide proper grounds for fixing trimmings, etc. Cellar floor of laundry anti porch to have

x	4" cedar joists bedded in concrete. Ground, first and attic floor joists to he so" x 2" at 16" centres properly trimmed at fire pisces, wells of stairs, etc., trimmers to be 4" thick or double 2" aid framed with double tenons. Put a tier of 2" x 2" herring bone strutting to each bearing of joists on

all floors, Prepare floors for pugging at gables where projecting beyond wall line with one inch boarding. Sloping roofs. 6" x a" rafters at 16" centres, and valleys 8 in. x 3 in., plates 9 in. x 3

in., collars. 6 in. x 2 in at t6 in. centres. Ends of rafters to be dressed inhere visible. Sloping roofs to be laid with dresseil 7/8 in. matched boarding in widths not exceeding 7 in., free front loose knots, shakes, or sap, well nailed. Pttt saddles behind chimneys boarded as roof aid 3" rounded roll to ridges, Pitt dresse facia smith t" beaded soflit to eaves, and bed niouttling. (B) Gables lobe 4" of stunlrhing at 18 in. centres, sheeted both sides wish narrow matched stuff aid lined out inside before battening is this a double thickness of sheathing paper well lapped ; batten as specified for other walls, sheet soffits with narrow, trouble beaded stuff matched on double sheathing pisper made close and tight at walls, etc., and (C) form eaves and bed mouldings as shown. Beams anti corhmels

at side gable to he dressed and moulded as shown (D) ; casings the windows to be moulded as shown. Front gable to have dentil inoulded large

































boards, as shows it, (D) secured it in strongest manner. Roof of rear porch to have dressed rafters. and 1 1/3 in. matched and beaded dressed roof boarding.

Partitions to have heads, sills and braces 4 in x 3 in door studs 4 in. x 4 in., or double in. X 2 its,; common studs 4 in x a in,, 16 in. centres, all so be properly framed and cross braceth, those carrying joists or rafters to have heads 3 in. x 4 in.' amid upper studs to be carried to them and to be well braced. Studs to he placed on first in confined places. The ground anti first floors to he laid with 7/8 in dressed tongued and grooved seasoned flooring of the best quality in boards not exceeding 3's in. in width, blind nailed to joists, and properly cleaned off on cotopletion; attic and basement (where called for



so	he burl with in. matched flooring or good quality, in boards not exceeding in, in width. floors in attn to t external to wall line. Ground and first floors to



be laid on thicknessed a in boarding lain diagonally with a double thickets of carpet felt between. Carpenters into to lay any floors till all gas or other pipes are Pitt in and finished floors tint to lie laid till completion of plastering. Pitt mitt cr1 margins to bearths. Main stairs to be built on 1 3/4 in. moulded strips 1 3/8 in wall strings to have t in. treads, rounded and returned nusings cavetto and fillet and cut brackets, 3/8 in. risers, two 7 in. paneled and moulded newels at foot, amid the rest 5 in. turneni and moulded cherry newels 3 in x 3 in moulded cherry handrail with a in. roll, and a in. torneti pine balusters. s Stairs to he built on proper carriages, well bracketed with in brackets nailed to each carriage under each step. Spandril at side of stair added forming enclosure to coat closet oft 3/8 in. framed and moulded panelling, all according to drawings paneled door to closet tinnier. Etid of stair facing entrance to have balustrade as shown. (F) Back stairs to have 3 iii rounded hardsynod rail, 4 in. hartlis or newels, and square balusters, to hoe s 3/2 in ticads, rounded and returned nosings and scotia  in. risers, put together in the best manner, with 3/8 in is wall strings. Stairs to cellar to have close strings, a in. treads, 3 in. rounded nail 4 in x4 in. chanifenent towels. 1 he kitchen back stairs and patitries to be sheeted with 7/8 in. matched and beaded sheeting 3 ft. high, and baths room ft high blind nailed to prolier grounds. and finished with moulded capping; boards not to exceed 4 in. in width. except in bath room, where they will not exceed 2 1/2 and to lie double headed or moulded. Drawing and dining rooms, ball, vestibule and staircase to have 10 in.

double taca moulded	skirtings,	and the rooms and hall u

9 in. single facia 7/8 in. thick, all properly scnihenl to foot-s and nailed to proper grounds. Nail fillet to floor at base. Base its attic 7 in. torns. Trim at registers and cut for plumbers, and hoc air pipes. Put 7/8 in. staff beads to all projecting atigles its kitcheti and attic. Bracket down for plaster arches on ground floor and first floor, as shown by dotted lines, bracket down for cove in drawing room. The cellar windows (except where otherwise specified) to have 6 in. x 4 in. solid rebated and chamfered frames, 1 3/4 lit, sash hung at the with 3 in. butts, ausd to be furnished with hints water-bars, 4 in. barrel bolts and hooks to hold them open. Cold air inlet to be protected with stout wine having 1/4 in. mesh ausd well secured. Fitch doors to have a iii. oak sills, to be 1 3/4 in. paneled and prepared with stops for glazing, hung at top anti furnished with hooks and 6 iii. bolts. The whole of Site windows above cellar (except where otherwise specified) to have proper boxed frames 2 its. double sunk sills, outside hanging stiles, 1 3/4 in. moulded sashes hung with the best sash conch over the best iron axle pulleys. Front drawing around window to have boxed heart, fixed fanlight, moulded transuns as shown. Four (41 windows on front elevation to haig 2 3/8 in. sashes witis stops in preparation for plate glass. Windows to be fastened wish approved fasteners of the value of $4.50 per doz., and furnished with best bronze ring window Ifis. Bed room windows, first floor, front elevation, to have simple titoulderi pilasters, sills, heads and transoms as shown, fanlights to be fixed and prepared with stops for lead glazing. Short window at first main stair landing, and that iii incus closet, to have solid rebated frames, with stops for lend work. Windows in coat closet under main stairs, attic side windows iii attic to Itave casement sash with tip and water bar, properly himgcnh, so have knobs, and secured with brass

