	<doctype type="text">46	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	April, 1891



<article title="architectural education in Canada" author="Gambier-Bousfield, R. W.">ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION IN CANADA.*

By R. W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD, A. R. I. B. A.



IN undertaking the preparation of a paper on the subject of the education of would-be architects in Canada, I was conscious that I had a difficult matter before me, and as I have proceeded with the work I have not found the difficulties decrease materially. If it was simply a matter of laying down the law, and saying that a student should learn this and that and follow such and such a particular line of instruction, there would not be much difficulty, but the point with us is, what a student should learn to make him proficient in this country, where he labours under some disadvantages. But when I say this, some of you may remark, surely the standard of proficiency should be the same in all countries.' No doubt that is very true, but how is it possible that that amount of knowledge which is considered a proficiency in the most refined countries of Europe, and which is only attained by years of close companionship, and consequent intimate acquaintance with, he examples of the work of all ages, and to be found only in the old world, is In he attained by our youthful aspirations who in forty-nine cases out of fifty have not the means to enable them to take even a short tour in Europe.

At the time of preparing this paper, 1 had before me the report of the Committee of our <assoc>Association on Education, </assoc>which was passed by the Council at their meeting in December last. No doubt all of you have read it, and I propose as I proceed to call attention to some of its details.

I have said that students in this country ore placed at some disadvantage. European students can read, and they can then go straight to see an example of that about which they have been reading. Our students can only read, and employ their imaginations to picture for them the subjects. They have illustrations to guide them, certainly, but what is the picture of a building or the mechanical representation of a portion of it to the actual structure—the uninterrupted study of the practical working out of a conception or idea which tends to a comprehension of the reason of every feature and detail? Examples of construction they have before them, good, bad and indifferent, and a young man may become a first rate builder; but that is only a portion of his character or composition as an architect.

Our committee have rightly given prominence to the fact that an architect to be a proficient must be as well up in the art as in the science of his profession. I think 1 am not far wrong in slating that the majority of architects in this country have hitherto been content to study construction, and to leave style rather to take care of itself. They are, or may be, good constructors, but does that entitle them to the distinction of being good architects? The public seem to think it does, and so long as a man carries not a house or a church, or other building, in a way that it will not tumble down, the public are content. But there is a change coming—even now commencing. We have greater facilities than heretofore for visiting Europe, and for being visited from Europe ; there is a greater interchange of ideas; there is a better knowledge of art and science diffused among the public and in the near future we shall find, if we have not found it yet, that clients are not so ignorant of what real art is as previous generations of clients have been.

In general, professional men have here, as in all new countries, been more intent upon trying to make money than upon trying to educate the public. I do not blame them. What is the good of trying to educate the public? What is the good of trying to teach an ignorant client that such and such is not good style. and that so and so is? No good at all; we shall only be considered fools for our pains, and so we have gone on. But what if the public is beginning to know something about the difference

between good and bad, between art and	Builders' Gothic?" What if a

client should turn round upon his architect and say,		If you don't mind,

Mr. So and So, 1 should prefer to have all the windows of new house of one date." I do not think this kind of thing is likely in happen just yet, but we are now considering education, and what our students should learn, and if this does not happen in our days, it will in theirs. Of course, there are many well educated men with whom we may come in contact as clients, and they naturally prefer to employ that architect who will make their buildings beautiful, as well as sound and substantial. Hitherto we have had too much to do with the dollars and cents. I do not mean that we have had the fingering of them, perhaps, as much as we should like, but we have had to deal with men who had, and who were very chary about parting with them, and these men have employed those who would do their work for the lowest remuneration, in preference to those who would bring to their aid the best professional ability.

And now come the questions What should our students learn and how should they learn it? An architect has little time to spare in teach youths fresh from school the very rudiments of his profession, and yet, in order that the raw material may be fashioned into something which shall be of use to him later on, he has to devote some time to looking after the young fellows. As a set-off for this, it is customary in many places for a boy who wants to be an architect (as the phrase goes) to pay a premium for the instruction he is to get from an architect. In England an architect of reputation has his choice of papils, who are only too ready In pay large sums for the privilege of doing work in his office for a stated number of years. for as a matter of fact this is really what it amounts to. The pupil who pays a large premium knows no more at the end of his time than does the boy who has got into the office of our architect of repute to pick up what he can for himself. The matter is reduced to one of ability in the youth, having little or nothing to do with the amount of time the architect spends at his elbow. But (and it is hardly necessary to say so), we are not in England. We have to do all our work for ourselves, for there is little we can trust entirely to our clerks and draughtsmen in the matter either of construction or design, and it is often far easier to do all the work oneself, than to correct the errors of our clerks. The draughtsmen whom we can get hold of are for the most part not properly educated, They have (I say the majority of them), been "fetched" up somehow, not trained, and we certainly cannot spare time to teach them. We may be glad that we have at last in connection with the School of Practical Science here a chair of architecture, and that the purpose is to put boys who want lobe architects through a course of instruction, and do much for them that will prepare them in part towards being of souse use and towards instructing themselves when they enter an architects office as pupils ; and although we want a great deal more than we have here at present, I hope it is a step in the right direction. Rut let us glance for a moment upon the systems of education for the practice of our profession in Europe and in the United States, and aspertain what in various countries is considered a standard of proficiency, and what a young man must do and pass through in order to be named as sufficiently competent to practice the profession.

There is no country so strict in connection with the professional training of architects as France. The French have had an <assoc>Academy of Architecture </assoc>since the year 1671---of now two hundred and twenty years standing. Its establishment was in connection with the French Academy of Arts, founded in 1635 by <person>Cardinal Richelien</person>, The story of the foundation of the archiPaper read at the Third Annual Convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of

Architects</assoc>.

tectural branch is somewhat amusing, and shows that the treatment we receive from the public is very similar in that meted out to architects two hundred years ago. <person>Bernini</person>, the Italian, was summoned by the king, <person>Louis XV</person>, to go to Paris and prepare a design for the re-construction of the Palace of the <building>Louvre</building>, butt finding—no doubt through the influence of the friends of the French architects, who were much disgusted at his arrival

—that there would be hindrances to his carrying out the work, he wisely decided to get back to Ronte, and making some excuse, withdrew from the work. A competition was instituted, apparently without the appointment of a professional referee. Only two sets of plans were sent in (architects sent to have been wise in those days). The design of <building>Levau</building> was recommended to the king (history does not relate by whom), and the king there. upon decided on having the other one carried out. It turned out that this was not by an architect at all, but by a doctor, <person>Claude Perrault</person>. A building committee was then appointed In superintend the execution of the design, with Charles Perrault, the brother of the physician, as one of its members, and this committee was the origin of the <assoc>Academy of Architecture</assoc>.

"At the time of the suppression of the Academy 1793, during the Revolts. ton, a number of send-private schools or ateliers were organized which gave rise in 1816 to the <building>Ecole des Beaux Arts</building>, which were separated in 1863 by <person>Napoleon III </person>from the Academy and placed tinder the charge of at director' and numerous professors of arts, of whom nine were professors of architecture. This school of fine arts affords free instruction to all comers, whether French or otherwise, between the ages of 15 and 30, on condition of their passing an examination. which consists of drawing, modeling in clay, and designing, all work executed in the school within at given time. Those who pass this test are then examined in arithmetic, algebra, geometry and history, and those who pass this second test become students of the second class of the school. The course of study here consists of competition in architectural design, and in construction, mathematics, drawing and modeling. There are lectures on all these subjects. The total confuse occupies about three years, but by this time the student; has only passed through the lower school, and not then unless he has been, very diligent, as the number of marks to be obtained in order to ensure:

success at the examination can only be reached by a student devoting all his time to study. Having passed, however, the student then goes to the upper school, where he still has to enter competitions in design. drawing, and modeling. and may take part in the annual competition for the:

Grand Prix," which, if he gains it, wilt entitle him to a diploma, the standard of which is very high, the examination very vigorous and searching, entailing a course of study covering in all six or seven years at Paris. No architect, without having gained the diploma, can carry out a public:

building, and although he may engage in private practice, his clients cannot:

hold him responsible at law, and naturally those without diplomas cannot expect much work that is worth having. The defect oh the French system is, that the art is studied In an extent that leaves too little room for the study of the science.

In Germany the system is the reverse to that in France. Training in practical work is considered of greater importance than a knowledge of the art of architecture. The student must study a year in an architects' office before entering the school, and if he aspires In the rank of Baumeister (a master of building), he must spend three years as clerk of works on a Government building before he passes to the superior branches of the school. But the man who looks forward to employment under Government must pass two examinations—the first, to test his knowledge gained in a technical school, which, if he is successful in passing, entitles him to he on inspector of government works. Between this examination and the second the candidate for government work in just pass two years in the practice of his profession, either in the general work of an architect's business or in constant supervision of actual work—like a clerk of works, in fact. Success at the second examination entitles him to employment under government.

In England there is no regular school of architecture akin to those on the continent, except the Royal Academy in London, so far as it goes. A youth outside the office of his master or employer may take up any line of study he thinks best, or that is recommended by his friends. He has drawing classes of the schools of art that he can attend; he may have access to libraries from which he can borrow standard works on art and construction, and he can study examples of both anywhere in the country or on the continent in his holidays. He may be much helped by joining the associations of students, which are no doubt doing great good. There are prizes to be competed for by all comers offered by the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects</assoc>, the <assoc>Royal Academy and the Architectural Association of London</assoc>, on subjects such as essays, drawings, models, measured drawings of ancient buildings and designs, all of which tend to show the pupil how he should steer his course, but the standard of success in these competitions is high. A youth whose tussles lead him to study construction rather than design soon finds that he must devote equal attention to the art. The obligatory examination of the Royal institute of British Architects, established in 1882, certainly has done good, if only in the way of giving students a line to follow and a goal at which they can test themselves and show that they are qualified to practice, to undertake whatever nay be entrusted to them. A student in England sees the necessity of studying the French language, for unless he can read fairly well, the valuable collection of works on architecture published in France during the past 250 years will be shut off from his grasp. The dogged persistency that is the character of the English has, however enabled many a man to surmount all the difficulties in his way arising from the lack of regular schooling for the profession. A youth determined to succeed does so—he takes pains, and that is the secret of success. And England has produced and is now, no doubt. producing men who have been and men who may he classed as some of the greatest architects of the world, and there is no reason why her colonies should not do likewise if they go the right way about it. It must be remembered that architects who have risen to distinction in England heretofore have not had the advantages students now have, therefore our students may take courage.

The system of professional education in the United States has risen on an experience of the good or the faults and failings of the old world systems ; .and it seems In he as perfect its any scheme can he in a new country where examples of the works oh all centuries do not exist. The four years course takes up a boy as he leaves school and gives him a thorough grounding in drawing, construction, in the history of the art, and in professional practice. The use of these few words as summarizing the course is an easy way of classifying a great deal of work, butt in reality they represent a moat complete course.

French architects are more artists than builders, because in the schools 1 they study together with artists—painters and sculptors. German architects are more builders than artists because they study together with engineers. In England a man may be whatever he likes to make himself'—a theoretical or a practical architect, or if he understands his calling, an admixture of both, In the United States the aim and object of the school is to make a man an 'Architect," which means equally well instructed in every branch of his profession ; and this is the evident intention of the scheme our committee have prepared for the guidance of students in Canada.

