	<doctype type="text">48	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	April, 1891



be permitted to end his remarks before any other person rises to answer. (Applause.)

<person>Mr. Billings</person> I am not in the habit of addressing public meetings, and probably <person>Mr. Curry</person> has misunderstood me. I don't recollect saying anything about the Ottawa directors ; I had no intention of doing so in any way, because the Institute is not connected with the Council in any way, although they may sit in it. There are 18 members of the Institute in Ottawa, and two of them only are directors, and it is competent for any of these men to ask any question; and as I happened to be the only one here they have asked me it I would kindly get this information. (Hear, hear, and applause.) <person>Mr. Arnoldi </person>said that these details, though he understood them in a certain way, were not positive, and as a large number of the Council are here, I thought I could get the information first-hand. One thing they want to know particularly is this: Any architect—whether he passes through any course or not, so long as he called himself an architect— has been allowed to register himself up to a certain date. On the other hand, students who were bound by articles at the time this Bill passed, so I understand, are required to pass examinations which they never expected when they entered upon their articles—which it strikes me is very unfair. The idea of the Institute was, that all those students that had been articled previous to the passing of the Act should be allowed to go on and pass through their course precisely as they expected they would have done when they went in as novices.

Mr. Edwards: I rise to second <person>Mr. Gordon </person>motion of thanks to the essayist. I think the discussion on this matter of examination is all out of order. I wish to ask if it is in order to discuss this matter, or the paper which we have heard?

The President This code of by-laws are under the government entirely of the Council, but at the same time they have been published and sent around to each member of the Association with a view of opening the question.

<person>Mr. Rastrick</person>: I beg to say they have not been sent around to each member of the Association.

The President : I understood so. At the same time, we don't want to do anything in a corner, or opposed to the wishes of the Association (hear, heat-), and as the matter has been introduced now, I think it is only fair that we should hear an expression of opinion on these matters if they are at all objectionable to the Association. (Applause.)

<person>Mr. Gambier-Bousfield </person>I may say that the object of this paper was simply as a basis for discussion on this very subject.

The motion of thanks was then put and carried.

<person>Mr. Bousfleld</person>, in responding, said the questions discussed in the paper should be well threshed out. There are several things in that paper that might well call forth a discussion. Mr. Billings brought up the question of languages. Now, what I said there was that if you don't learn French you shut yourself out entirely from that splendid library of works on architecture in the French language which has been collected for the past 250 years. (Hear, hear.) It is all very well to learn only French in the Quebec province, to speak to the workmen and that sort of thing, but we want more than that.

<person>Mr. Langton</person>: The comparison Mr. Billings makes between students being compelled to pass the examination, and architects is not a proper one, because an architect in full practice could not very well be required to stop his practice in order to learn subjects which he had not previously learned, in order to pass an examination. It would be an injustice to him but to a student whose principal object for the first years of his entrance into the profession is to study, it is far from doing him an injustice— it is an advantage to him and to the country—-to be compelled to take a little better course than he would otherwise have done. (Applause.) One great desirability for French is that now-a-days every man sooner or later goes to the continent; and he is shut off from a great deal of convenient intercourse if he cannot speak that language. There is hardly any country in Europe in which a man cannot make his way with comfort if he has a certain smattering of French; and for a student to go alone as he very often does—into a country where he cannot communicate with the natives in any way, is a great hindrance to him, to say nothing of the fact that some of the best works on architecture are written in the French language.

Mr. Townsend: The amount of French or German required of students is only such an amount as is equal to the examination of the second form of the Collegiate Institute—which is a very small amount just enough to give the pupil an opportunity of continuing the study. He may drop it after the final examination, for anything there is upon the order, if he wishes to. As to the particular classes of examples required, these are simple papers or drawings calculated to show that he has covered a certain amount of study of existing examples of work. It can make very little difference as to what particular examples he studies, or what particular style, so long as that studying is done; and I think early English and Decorative work covers the ground pretty thoroughly.

Mr. Bousfield: I don't know why Norman is left out. Is there any particular reason for that?

<person>Mr. Jarling</person>: It seems to me it would be better not to say that they would have to do certain things as definitely as apparently it speaks of them there, but to say that they are liable to be examined and to he asked to send in sheets of drawings touching upon certain things. It makes a mar cover a much

wider range of ground than to be asked for certain things. In accordance with that he may say, "Well, I am only going to look at early English, Decorative and Perpendicular—I am not asked for anything else."

<person>Mr. Townsend</person>: Those drawings are not to be made at the examination—they are work that he does beforehand, and that he brings in to show that he has covered a certain class of work. You cannot ask him to bring in indefinitely three or four classes of work, because he may be doing bad work instead of good.

<person>Mr. Darling</person>: I understand that ; but the papers are asked for the final examination.

The President No, they are for the intermediate examination.

Mr. Darling Would it not be advisable to have something more definite as regards architecture proper? There is nothing said anywhere that he is to study the whole of the orders of architecture and all the different styles thoroughly and well, and he is liable at any moment to be put through a severe course of examination on his final on all these subjects. It does not seem to me that it is definite enough. There is nothing here said that you can ask a man at his examination, and he certainly ought to have that at his fingers' ends. It seems to me this is not definite enough as to that. There is not enough about architecture. (Hear, hear, and applause). It seems to me, from what little experience I have had, that men are trying in this country to design exactly the same as a man might try to write Latin prose without having learned his Latin grammar. It is the whole trouble all through—it either runs too much to the artistic side or too much to the engineering side. There is a great deal of architectural grammar that ought to be learned, and examinations ought to show it. (Applause.)

<person>Mr. Paull</person>: The prospective education seems to be well thought of; and of benefit to those who are likely to be architects for the future, and all very necessary and it shows that the Council have given to this their very careful consideration. As to the students who have gone into offices without expecting an examination, I have every confidence in the Council, that they are men of liberal sentiments, and will do justice to those students as they would to their own sons or for any other members, so that we should be safe in their hands in any matter of that sort.

Mr. Curry: This discussion is the result of bringing up a matter that has not been properly digested. At the last Council meeting we had considerable business, and the session ran over two days. This examination question was brought up, and we were having any amount of discussion and were not getting ahead ; and the result of what we did was this paper the Registrar has read. We had to arrive at something, and that something resulted in this. The Council has no intention of carrying these things out, as far as I know. I certainly have not. But it is the desire to work a little further. We have to have a foundation, and what was done is just a step towards the end. As far as the examples that have been asked for, that was simply thrown in to show what sort of paper would be required, so with that drawing to rule. This examination was, in a sense, proposed to be an examination for a continuous course ; but that examination would not be similar throughout it would be changed each time. Then as to students in preparing that course we were considering those who should enter the profession from now, not the students who are now in. Of course, whatever is done, there is no intention of forcing students through a regular systematic course who have already entered the profession as it stood in the past, and who have now advanced some years in it. To such it would be somewhat of a hardship to go through that course. The only intention is to have the first examination reasonably fair; the next one somewhat stiffer, and so on, until we have the final examination of students who entered knowing exactly what they were expected to do. The student who enters now would know exactly what he would have to do, and it would be no hardship to him whatever. The examination of draughts-men or students who are now in the profession, or have been for several years, will be made as light as possible, but at the same time they must show that they are reasonably good men. We don't propose to have an examination which means no examination, but at the same time we have no intention of putting the screws on too hard, or holding candidates back and making them go through a course of study which they never supposed they would have to pass through. Still, I agree with <person>Mr. Langton </person>that it would be to the student's benefit even if he were asked to go through such an examination; but I don't think it would be altogether fair. I think we are agreed that students should be able to understand French or German. French would be the more advisable of the two. Then as to the honor course; it is not, properly speaking, an honor course. Some thought that there were questions outside that some students might like to take up, which could not reasonably be put in the regular course hence the so-called honor course. Then as to whether the examinations are engineering or artistic, I think we can all have but one opinion, after all---we are hardly examining a man on his artistic abilities. We certainly teach him as much architecture as possible, but the principal thing is that a man should have a thorough training in what are really the essentials of good construction, planning, and soon. If a man is entirely without artistic qualities, I think we can hardly train him into artistic qualities but it is possible to take a man with some artistic qualities and train him to a knowledge of mathematics to some extent. I think it is agreed all round that it is almost an impose

