<doctype type="text">	April, 1891	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	45



which exists between many buildings with which we are familiar and natural forms. in No, 5 is illustrated a part of the great Mammoth Cave in Virginia. No. .6 a tower in Germany, and the Cathedral Rocks, Virginia. If time only permitted, hours could We spent pointing out such examples of similarity, as well as the wealth of suggestion that still lies in Nature, waiting to be used.

For the sake of reference to the social condition influencing architecture, I will take as an example a well-known Toronto building which has noble

wider liberty grew, the public buildings and residences were more and move decorated. As we have not yet shaken off the shackles of feudalism, the workman still lies under the thrall of some power. That power is the same as was exercised by the feudal lord, although it may not be so absolute.





























proportions from any point of view; at twilight its effect is especially harmonious, but in the light of day it will bear critical examination front the front only. No. 7 is from a sketch made at evening from my studio, and No. 8 a view of it from the corner of Bay and King streets. You sorely do not ask me what is wrong with it who can pass it without seeing its great blank side walls in strong contrast with the ornamented and windowed front? What ingenuity the architect has had to exercise to light it from the front and back, and with what anguish be must look upon it until the speculators

During the ages the spirit of independence has been developing, and now social reformers are demanding equality of right for all. If it is true that the more division of right there he to the absolute ownership of land, the more the power to control art and labor is broken, then there can he no doubt left that it the land is absolutely the possession of all who live on it,























the monopoly of art by a few is lost, and the tendency to beautify will be more widely spread.

Many may think that such a change in our social conditions as I have

hinted at world not affect architecture, except to rob it of its patrons ; that

is exactly what is needed to make our arts noble-—We want no patrons--allow enterprise to raise buildings alongside to cover its nakedness, How

much better it would be if they could boy the air on each side, and decorate and light the building properly. Buy the at?' you say; Why that would cheek enterprise" and I answer "Do we not chock enterprise and trample on natural right as much a by buying land?' Besides, air can virtually be bought here, and it is actually bought in Constantinople, for the Bible house there owns the air above a large block of buildings, and its view of the city can never be blotted out, no matter bow high the value of land rises.



















In conclusion I wish to point out that I am not challenging either the honesty or good taste of our architects and builders. They are as helpless to create a noble architecture as our painters are to paint good pictures, while not surrounded by the necessary conditions. When I speak of conditions, I mean In say if they are not favorable we cannot expect to have any worthy art. In feudal times great castles anti beautiful churches arose because the power of the feudal lord and of the church could buy all the art of the community. in its earliest aspect art was confined to the castles ; then when the church became more powerful cathedrals were evolved, and, as a

we want an independent spit it which will no longer cringe before amateurs and men of wealth, hot wealth, with freedom front pinched necessity, will find the possibility of refusing to Itrosittote its art for any consideration. Then when art has an opportunity to produce spontaneously, we can look for results more worthy of the larger liberty.



<article title="connecting steam pipes to boilers" author=""> CONNECTING STEAM PIPES TO BOILERS.-After boilers are properly arranged and set up, the next important point to be considered is the arrangement of the main steam pipes and their connections, for unless these are properly designed and put up, much trouble is apt to come. The points to be considered, but which are very often neglected, are to provide for the effects of expansion. and also to make allowance for any settling of the boilers which may, and generally does, occur after they have been run a short time.

