<doctype type="text">April 1891	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND Builder



sibility to examine a man in such a way as to ascertain his value as to artistic accomplishments, as you can with mathematics. There is a general consensus of opinion as to what is art, but it is not a question that can be argued down to facts, as construction, science, and kindred branches can be. This outline is only a suggestion of what the paper should be.

<person>Mr. Paull</person>: I see no provision in this draft for the recognition of those who had articled themselves, and perhaps filled their articles.

<person>Mr. Rastrick</person>: This matter of students having entered upon their pupilage before the Act was passed is a serious matter that we ought to make some provision for. As to French, no architect can ever advance in his profession unless he knows it. I have never been able to obtain a notion in any course—except in a few Italian books that I have read-—except the French. The French are better grounded in their knowledge of architecture. Their system is one that you cannot lay on one side for a moment. They are scientifically written, in good language and you get ideas from them that you would not get from any other. I don't know but that there are German works of vast value. Although I could only spell over the words and translate them gradually I derived some practical information from them. The Germans are more constructive, and they are better educated in a scientific manner. They make the most of the calculations on things that we would just look at and sketch, and they lay them down admirably and mathematically to a scale. It is not necessary that you should be a very great linguist to take advantage of the works in these languages. I never could translate French rapidly, but going through gradually I derived great advantage from it.

<person>Mr. Langton: </person>Is it in the discretion of the Council to make any distinction between students who were articled some time ago and those who are just beginning? I understand it is a provision of the Act that a student should pass the examination, and it does not seem to be possible for the Council to have any variation in the examination so as to admit some students easier than others.

The President I think it is quite within the province of the Council in their judgment to set up an examination upon any basis they may think proper; and they have set up this year's examination much more liberally than next years, and the next year much more severe than that again. It is quite within their province to do so. I for one am very much in favor of allowing as we have been obliged to do in regard to those in actual practice. If we had asked for an Act cutting off any that we thought were not qualified to practice, but who had been in practice for a few years, and established in business, and were making a livelihood out of it, the Government would not have granted it. In the same manner we cannot cut off the amount of time that the students of the present day have spent in preparing themselves under a certain regime that has now passed away; it would not be right and equitable so that I think our first examinations should be as liberal as it is possible to make them to bring tip gradually the highest standard. Section 24 of the Act refers the matter to the Council, who have to prescribe the examinations.

<person>Mr. Edwards </person>When these examination items were arranged, the matter of the extent and the breadth of the examination was talked of, and it was deemed that those gentlemen who got up these examination papers from time to time would be then able to say to what extent the examination in any subject should go, and while this brief synopsis of the examination may appear imperfect, I think that would cover the ground which some of the speakers here have desired to cover. That explanation will perhaps account for the brevity and apparent carelessness of this examination paper.

<person>Mr. Darling </person>I don't want to criticize anything, but I would suggest that it may be wise in a thing like that to state certain books that it would be well students should devote their attention to,

Mr. Edwards: It is under consideration now.

Mr. Darling: I think it would be well to give them wider suggestions as to design, and as to their reading. I don't think we can make that much too wide, if you consider that that will fall into the hands of a student in a small country place whose master has not much opportunity of coming into contact with other members of the profession, and he himself cannot help him very much. He has nobody to look to, and may have no one that he can write to. I would let that be so wide that it might seem disagreeable but give him all the information he could possibly get—the more information you give him, the more satisfactory it would be all round. A little too much information is a great deal more satisfactory than too little.

<person>Mr. Bousfield</person>: The examinations should not be looked to as bugbears; they are milestones to show a student what he should know at a certain time, and to give him an idea of what he should take up. It is not the intention to get up an examination to hinder the students the great idea is to help them. As far as the Ottawa students are concerned, I think they make a great mistake in thinking for a moment that they could not pass the examinations. As <person>Mr. Langton </person>said, it is a very great benefit to them and to the society as well. When we are instructing young men we are doing it for the public benefit as well as their own, and if men are to be architects they have got to learn that it will make them proficient. When I was a student in England, I was only too glad when I found I had to

pass an examination, because then I had a definite object of study, and that is just what these preliminary examinations do.

<person>Mr. Billings</person>: I couldn't say that the Ottawa students wanted to dodge any of the examinations. I think, as a rule, they will all want to pass them. The only thing is this, that the objection was made by the members of the Institute to taking away any vested rights which those students might seem to have—when a youth entered on a course of study on a certain understanding, be ought to be allowed to go into the profession on the same understanding as he entered.

The President: I don't think that is a question that we can take up just now, because what is the use of our forming an Association with the idea of elevating our profession and bringing it up to a higher standard than it at present occupies before the public, if we are to allow continuously those who choose to enter as students, and think they have only certain things to do, and who attend offices two or three hours a day, and play the rest of the time We have started this Association with the view of bringing up in the future a set of men who will be educated in their profession—fully equipped for the battle of life in that profession, more conversant with every branch of it, both scientific and artistic and if we don't succeed in that, we had better drop the Association entirely. (Hear, bear). My view is to allow those now in the profession to pass through as liberally as possible ; but every student hereafter entering the profession must come through the door of an examination or the qualification as here laid down. An idea has been in the minds of some of the members of forming a circulating library of architectural works that shall be useful for the country students. They shall pay a small fee for the use of the books, which can be sent backward and forward by 1)00k post, so as to afford them opportunities of reading up and educating themselves in the different branches of the profession. (Hear, hear, and applause). Of course, that is hardly necessary in the city. A number of members of the profession have very good libraries of their own, and we have a number of good works in the Public Library, and we have opportunities that do not exist in the country towns; and this library will be almost exclusively for the benefit of the country students and younger members of the profession.

<person>Mr. Gordon</person>: Would it be in order to make a suggestion— somewhat on the line of Mr. Darling's first suggestion—that is, that the artistic. element should be more largely represented in the examinations? 1 notice in the first examination there is nothing upon the question of perspective, which is the first element in designing; and I would suggest that you should have linear perspective added in the first examination; that in the second intermediate examination you add shading, and perhaps color; and then in the final examination add an essay upon the principles of design—something that would to a certain extent meet the great lack which there evidently is in the subjects of the artistic element.

The President: A very good suggestion.

<person>Mr. Knox</person>: I was about to make the same suggestion, and that is, too little attention has been paid to the artistic element. Supposing a young man passed through the various examinations there enumerated, they will become first-rate constructors; but I know the leading designers both on this continent and in England, and I must say that so far as the knowledge of construction goes, it is very small indeed. I therefore hold that the two go sometimes together, but usually they drop pretty widely apart and I would therefore say that in your examinations you might have it so that a young man could pass an examination as a designer and come forward as an architectural designer or artist, while the other young men might come out with their construction and become architects in the sense which you have prepared these examinations for. I think it is only fair for both sides of the question.

Mr. Darling: I want to put myself tight. Both Mr. Gordon and Mr. Knox said I have been speaking on behalf of a more artistic element. I am not speaking of the artistic element at all. What I did speak of was the lack of the architectural element. (Hear, hear, and applause), I am down on this running off on the artistic element constantly; there is too much of it; what I want to see is more of the thoroughly architectural element.

Mr. Knox: I want to correct myself; I meant the architectural element—the designing, not the mere drawing the design.

Mr. Gordon: And I may say the same. (Laughter).

Mr. Bousfield: : It shows the necessity of learning how to speak—to say what you mean. (Laughter).

Mr. Billings: Is it the intention of the Council to award certificates for students who pass well in drawing from life, etc.? WouId the Council give them any points on examination?

The President In answer to what I understand Mr. Billing's question to be, I would say that what he refers to does not come quite within our curriculum. That relates more to an examination in the Royal Academy. (Hear hear). There they form classes for drawing from the nude, and so on, and the higher branches of art. It is something we have not taken into consideration as yet.

Mr. Bousfield: It is taken up by students' associations.

The President: I think we have had a very full discussion on this very able paper of Mr. Bousfield's, and I may on behalf of the Council, thank you all for the suggestions that you

