<doctype type="text">May, 1891 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title="buildling materials" author="">BUILDING MATERIALS.*

THE consideration of the subject of building materials for any structure naturally suggests three departments of investigation, viz. 1st, The question of structural suitability and, the subject of artistic suitability and 3rd, The matter of expense. All of these must necessarily receive some attention, and each in its relative importance.

Experience and observation seem to declare that in far too many cases their order of importance is reversed, and the financial aspect of the subject receives more than its due share of consideration. Instances are by far too common within the ingenuity and thought of an architect are unduly taxed to accomplish with a cheap and inferior material, an effect which should only be sought by the use of something more expensive. The financial interest of a client is often so unduly pressed that an architect is led to use a material which. were he untrammeled in regard to cost, would not find a place in his building. It will be found, however, that a clients best interests are frequently served by the use of a more expensive and durable material, even though at the outset his limited views may cause him to protest against such an expense. Certainly there can be no question that an architects reputation depends largely upon the quality of materials used in his buildings, as well as upon the skill with which they are disposed. So it cannot he amiss to emphasize the need of placing the most important aspect of the question first, viz., structural suitability, then artistic effect, and then cost. In the first of these matters the architect's decision should be so intelligent and definite that no interference will be attempted by a client. Of course there are always half informed men of positive opinions, who, because they have to pay the bills, insist upon their views being carried out. But when met by a well informed architect, whose views are positive because he knows whereof he speaks, such clients are usually found amenable to what in the end is for their best interests. Certainly the opinion of an architect who has studied the structural suitability of building materials is entitled to be received as final ; and no client should be allowed to overrule the best judgement of his professional adviser, when all the facts have been considered. Concerning she subject of artistic suitability, a somewhat similar attitude should be assumed by the architect. Courtesy, however, is due to the pronounced tastes of the man who is not only to pay for the building, but also perhaps live in contemplation of it day by day. Even then, however, it is a question whether the architect should not insist upon carrying out his view and provide a structure which may perhaps have an educative influence upon the uncultured taste of his client.

Whatever may have been our experience in the past or resolutions for the future ill regard to these matters, cur position must he greatly strengthened by an intelligent and comprehensive knowledge of both subjects. This, as you are well aware, can only be attained by constant study and observation. It is to briefly direct your attention to one of these branches that I now present this paper. The field is too large to even cursorily touch upon its various departments, so I must content myself with a few generalities upon some of the more common building materials.

First in order tire the natural products. Stone occupies a front rank in natural building materials, because of its durability and other excellent qualities. Building stones are subject to two methods of classification, viz., according to their chemical composition, or their mechanical Structure. The consideration of both of these is necessary to determine the suitability of a building stone.

Mechanically consifirred, stones are either simple or compound. Those composed of the same substance throughout are simple, as for instance pure limestone. Compound stones are an aggregation of simple materials, which in their final formation have been either cemented or simply aggregated. In cemented stones the particles are cemented together by another substance, anti their strength and durability largely depend upon the nature of this cementing substance, If it he pure siliceous cement, the stone is very durable, provided the matter so cemented is itself durable. If the cement be alstminous, the cohesion will be much less more especially when the aluminum is mixed with iron, in which case the stone is subject to chemical disintegration. If the cementing substance be calcareous, the action of heat, rain or frost is liable to produce either chemical or mechanical disintegration. in aggregated atones the simple minerals are immediately connected together without any other cementing materials. These stones may generally be classed as granular, slaty or porphyritic. When the stones of simple natural or mineral are of nearly the same size, length and breadth and thickness, the stone is called granular, such as granite. When the constituent elements are thin and fiat, the stone is called slaty. Where one of the constituent elements forms a basis in which the other parts are imbedded, the stone is called porphyritic.

The principal chemical elements of most building stones are silex, alumina, lime and magnesia. The preponderance of any of the first three leads to the classification of the stone tinder the bead of either silicions, aluminous or calcarcous. As, however, aluminous stones nearly always contain a mixture of silex, they are more generally termed argillaceous. Silex or the earth of flints being nearly insoluble, forms a very important element in producing a strong, compact and very enduring stone. The two great classes of siliceous stones are granites acid sandstones—the former being aggregated and the latter cemented.

Granite and gneiss are composed of quartz, feldspar and mica. The best stone is that in which the particles are fine and uniformly distributed. If the quartz predominates, the atone will be hard and brittle; if the feldspar is in large quantity, chemical decomposition may take place; if the mica is in excess, the stone will be soft and subject to mechanical disintegration.

Sienite, which is classed under the general term of granite, is composed principally of horneblend nod feldspar. Sandstones are composed of small particles of quartz united by a cement, which is either siliceous, argillaceous or calcareous in nature. The best sandstones are usually those where the cementing substance is siliceous. The worst are those where it is argillaceous. The grains of sandstones being comparatively indestructible, the durability of the stone depends upon the cementing material. Chemical action which might affect the calcareous cementing material. or both chemical and mechanical action affecting the argillaceous or aluminous cementing material, must always be taken into consideration when dealing with the suitability of sandstone. Front the mode of their formation sandstones are frequently laminated, more especially when the thin plates of mica have been deposited in planes parallel with its bed. Hence the necessity for placing sandstones on their natural bed ; otherwise, if the panes of lamination are in a vertical position, the decomposition of the laminar will cause the stones to fall off in flakes.

When the mechanical structure of the stones is good, siliceous stones are the best possible material for foundations, piers, bedding plates or any position requiring great strength, hardness and durability. Pronouncedly siliceous stones, however, have this great drawback, that they are very hard to work with the masons tools.

Argillaceous stones, like common clay, are a mixture of alumina or pure clay and sues, In most instances there is a further mixture of metallic oxides and other earths. Nearly all the stones known to builders as slate



<article title=" Paper read before the Toronto Architectural Sketch Club " author="Gordon, H. B.">Paper read before the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Sketch Club </assoc>by Mr. <person>H. B. Gordon</person>.

belong to this class. The most deleterious substances found in these stones are iron and its sulphurets. Iron in the turn of pyrites or in a state of oxide is frequently found in slate. When exposed to moisture, the pyrites become decomposed, and the iron still further oxvgenized, the surface of the slate peels off or falls into powder. In proportion to the amount of sdex held in chemical combination, is ill he the strength and hardness and enduring qualities ofargiliaceous stones. the action 01 water and vegetable growth upon alumimions stones is very considerable, hence those that contain the most silex and absorb the least water are generally the most serviceable.

Calcareons, or limestones, cover a large range of our available building stones, from pure chalk up to marble. They are composed principally of carbonate of lime combined with usetallic oxides. They may be divided into three classes, viz., the simple, the colite, and the nuagnesian. libe simple limestones are very durable, lint they are difficult to work owing to their tendency to splinter. The stone in which the structure is the most crystaline is the best for cutting.

ide oolite limestones are composed of oviforns bodies cemented by calcareous matter. They are very various in texture and durability, according to whether the oviform bodies and the cement are coherent or not. The limestones which are usually turned shelly, Iron their being formed of broken or perfect fossil shells cemented by calcareous matter, stifler decomposition in an unequal manner in consequence of the shells offering the greatest amount of resistance to the decomposing effects of the atmosphere.

The magnesium limestones constitute a very valuable class of building material. The addition of carbonate of magnesia gives theist a more or less glossy luster. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between fine grained sandstone and crystalline limestone. The application of sulfuric acid to the surface will produce effervescence on the limestone, but will not affect these sandstones.

Carbonate of hinie being the predominant chemical element iii all lime-stones, the action of water, acids and heat require to he carefully considered. Pnre lime, as you know, is produced by the action of heat freeing misc carbonic acid gas. The action of fire upon limestone buildings is well known, hence the care that should be observed in keeping such material away front fireplaces, fines or other positions exposed to heat.

Many grey limestones when exposed for a few years become almost white ; in this case the chemical change is going on slowly, bus the ultimate decomposition of the limestone is none the less sure. The action of water in conjunction with the atmospheric chemical influence, causes a disruption of the exposed particles on the face of the stone. Thus buildings will be found to suffer most decomposition on the surfaces exposed to the rains or driving storms.

It may be well to repeat a few general deductions ism, Apart from the questions of cost, color or artistic effect, siliceous stones are the best for general building purposes. They are usually the strongest amid also the least affected by the natural elements, care being observed to avoid in one direction, very hard or brittle stone ; and on the other hand, sandstones which are censenued by inferior substamiecs. amid, For purposes of foosimigs, lintels, templates or other positions requiring great transverse strength, the best qualities of argillaceous stones are very valuable—care being taken to avoid stones containing iron or other convertible materials. 3rd, Simple crystalline limestones and those containing carbonate of magnesia form very useful buildings—care being exercised to not expose them unduly to the action of water, frost, smoke or beat. Two general principles applicable to all stones are: 1st, That the greater their specific gravity, usually, the greater their crushing strength; 2nd, The less water they absorb, the more they are to be trusted.

I must conclude these remarks upon building stones lay the following quotations from the report of the Commission appointed to investigate into the causes of decay in the stone of the English Houses of parliament.

Regarded from a purely chemical pouts of view the difference in the resisting power to corrosive agents of different building stones, would appear at first sight to depend entirely upon their chemical composition ; but even a moderate acelnaintance with the properties of Site components of such building stones demonstrates that there are other conditions at least equally instrumental in determining the degree of permanence of different stones. It is a well established fact that the some chemical substance exhibits in different conditions a great variation in its behaviour with chemical agemius. fine marble amid chalk are chemically identical, but sewing to the difference in their physical structure, the one being crystalline amid the other aroorphons, the former is much less readily acted upon by acids than the Initter. Carbonic acid in the presence of water is a powerful solvent ; it not only corrodes the calcareons and nuagnesian carbonates, whether they form the principal constituents of the stone or are only present as cenienting materials, but is capable even of attacking and gradually decomposing the hardest and most indestructible rocks, In the case of the calcareous and magnesium constituents of stone, carbonic acid acts by transforming the insoluble earthy carbonates into soluble bicarbonates, which are thus removed from the surface of the stone ; whilst its influence on siliceous rocks consists in the elimination of the alkaline bases in the form of carbonates, and the separation of the silica ins more or less friable condition. The weathering of grants and their grafitmal transformation into time several varieties of porcelain clay affords an interciting illustration of the latter kind of action,"

In the changes just mentioned, the carbonic acid amid water are equally concerned, the water serving not only as a vehicle for the introduction of the carbonic acid into the pores of the stone, but also as a solvent for the products of its action. There are changes, however, to which building stones are subject in which water is the sole agent, and which are more of a mechanical than of a chemical character. The exemption which water undergoes on freezing, and the irresistible force which is the exerts are well known. It is obvious that water freezing within the pores of a stone muss exercise a disintegrating action not less powerful than those above referred to. Chemically, therefore, the use of calcareous anti-magnesium the stone, the more rapidly it will be destroyed ; and chemically, the more readily is gives admission to the vaporous or gaseous sulfur acids anti water vapor, the faster is will be disintegrated.

Closely allied with stone in must of our structures are the artificial pro ducts of clay and sand in the shape of bricks and terra cottut.

In order so secure the best bricks, attention must be paid to the kind of earth, the method of working it, the form into which it is moulded, amid the manner in which it is burned. The best brick earth is composed of a mixture of pure clay and sand. Care should be taken to eliminate the pebbles, especially those of limestone formation. These pebbles act as fluxes in burning, and weaken the brick by leaving cavities or causing cracks. If limestone, the burning reduces them to lime and the action of water will afterwards destroy the brick. If, however, small grains of pyrites or other metallic substances be present in small quantities and equally distributed throughout the earth, they assist the verification of the brick and are an advantage. The brick earth is frequently found in a natural state. When it is necessary to mix the clay and sand, experiment alone will determine their relative proportion. If the clay is in excess, the temperature required to semi-vitrify it will cause it so warp, shrink and

