<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER

May, 1891



crack. if there be an excess of sand, too strong vitrification may ensue.

'the quality of a brick depends quite as much on the skill used in its manufacture as in the quality of the earth. After the particles are fully disintegrated, and they have been sifted so as to remove pebbles, they may be either moistened for ordinary brick making or passed on to the press for dry press work. The quantity of water required for tempering will depend on the quality of the earth. The general rule is the less used the better, or just enough to make it so plastic as to be easily shaped. If too much water be used, the brick will not only be very slow in drying, but it will in most cases crack, owing to the surface becoming completely dry before the moisture of the interior has had time to escape.

Too little attention is paid in Canada to the drying of our common brick before burning. Paced as they are in the open air, exposed to the full action of the wind, and to some extent also exposed to the sun, one part dries quicker than the other and the bricks are full of cracks anti unequal shrinkage. Here, too, the presence of too much clay will cause cracking, while if there be too little sand, the brittle nature of the brick will cause the arises to softer. Plastic bricks should be slowly dried in a shed so protected that the action of wind and sun may not affect one part to the detriment of the whole. It is in this process that the superiority of the dry pressed brick is very apparent. As no water is used, save the moisture contained in the disintegrated earth, no preliminary drying process is needed, the bricks are immediately placed in the kiln, their arises are not subjected to two handlings nor their surfaces distorted by unequal drying.

In the burning of our ordinary bricks greater care might well be observed in many instances. Whether wood or coal is the better fuel is not so important a matter, although no doubt the stdphureus furies of coal may pro. duce after results in the color of the brick. The great question is how the heat is applied. My impression is that in many cases it is at least too strong and too short. Were several days added to the time of burning and cooling, and the process not so intense, we would have stronger add better formed bricks.

Another muter that might well receive he attention of architects and brickmakers is tile form of the bricks. Heretofore the bricks have been made to soil the quick handling of them by the bricklayers when laying, without considering specially the best form to obtain a strong and durable brick. Those of us should have seen the thin square bricks of the ancient Roman buildings that have stood the exposure to wind and rain for two thousand years, have perhaps been set thinking whether after all our form of brick is the correct one. Roman bricks are from 1 1/2" to 1 7/8" it thickness and from 7 1/2" to 12" square. The squareness possibly would be an objection to the efficient bonding of our comparatively narrow walls, but surely the question of thickness is one that should receive consideration? The German and Flemish bricks are about 2" thick, and no better bricks are made arty-where.

Good bricks ring with a metallic sound when struck, and will hear a smart blow without breaking. Generally speaking, the denser and heavier a brick is for its size, the stronger it is for general use. Also the less water a brick will absorb, the better it is.

The crushing weight that can be sustained by ordinary bricks is very various varying from as low as 500 lbs. to the square inch up In 10,000 lbs., while the best pressed brick will sustain a crushing weight of 12,000 lbs. With ordinary brickwork the strength greatly depends upon the cementing material. It is not well to calculate upon more than .500 lbs. to the square inch as the crushing weight of good ordinary brickwork, and an outside limit of soon lbs. for select brick boils in cement. Kidder's experiments give a range extending considerably higher than this, while 'Iran-twine is considerably below these figures in his estimate. No brickwork should be planned to sustain less than one-fifth of these crushing weights; that is fun too to 200 lbs. to the square inch of safe load, according to the quality of the brickwork. When we remember that the crushing weight neared to reduce some granites, and even limestones, is over 20,000 lbs. to the square inch, the disparity between theta anti even the best brickwork is apparent.

The use of brickwork for the foundations of very heavy structures may well be questioned. Also in view of its absorbent qualities it should not be used where dampness and frost may combine their destructive agencies upon it, The strength and properties of mortars and cements require even greater consideration than those of brick and stone, for upon them largely depends the strength and durability of the walling. They are usually the weakest point iii construction, and the ultimate strength of the whole wall is dependent on that of its weakest element.

Lines may broadly be divided into ordinary and hydraulic—the former having its divisions of rich or fat lines, and poor or meager limes; the latter having three divisions according to their hydraulic qualities. . The rich limes are the pures; metallic oxides of calcium we possess, and the purer the carbonate of lime from which they are obtained, the richer or fatter they are. When slacked, they swell to twice their original bulk, They never harden when placed in water, and if continuously exposed to the action of water will be entirely dissolved. The best lines are obtained from the closest grained and densest limestones The poor limes are those which swell but little when being slacked, are soluble in water but do not set, and leave a residuum after dissolution.

For the purposes of making a good mortar, lime should be completely slacked. A few days submission to the action of water would be beneficial in the case of fat limes, so that a complete hydrate may be formed. The old Romans had a law that lime must he three years under the water before being used. While of course this is extravagant exaggeration of the benefits of complete saturation, the idea intended to be conveyed may well be pondered. When we remember the expansion of lime while slacking, the necessity for having that swelling fully accomplished before it is placed in the joints of masonry is worth remembering.

Again, it is well to guard on the other hand against having too much water in the mortar, as in the case of thick walls the drying out of the lime is a problem of importance. A fact to this point is cited by General Treussart who had occasion to demolish in the year 1822 one of the bastions erected by Vauhau in the citadel of Strasbotirg in the year t666, In the interior the lime after these s56 years was found to be as soft as though it were the first day on which it had been made. The difference between the manipulation of ordinary and hydraulic limes is seen when it is remembered that the slower the manipulation of the former and the quicker that of the latter the better.

Concerning the quantity of sand to be mixed with lime so make a good mortar, the amount largely depends upon the richness of the lime. Good fat lime will take as much as two and a half times its slacked bulk of sand, or shoot five times the dry bulk. This is an outside limit, but observation of the ordinary mortar beds of builders seems to prove that they love to keep close to or beyond this limit. For ordinary purposes one and a half times the slacked bulk or three times the dry measure of the liter is a fair guide. A much greater quantity of lime is rather a weakness than an advantage. For hydraulic lime or cements, however, the proportion should generally be less. When more sand than double the amount of cement is used, the cohesive power is likely to be weakened.

One point of vital importance is to have the mortar thoroughly mixed and

of a uniform consistency. Extra good results may be obtained by first working op the lime in to a paste in a mill, and then mingling the sand and lime in a pig mill. . But all precautions in other matters will be in vain unless the quality of the sand is correct. The general terms clean and sharp sand, which find place in most specifications, may cover a great variety of useful or comparatively worthless earths. Sand of irregular sized grains is best—the smaller ones filling op the interstices of the larger. Where sand is very coarse, it is better to mix some of finer grained structure with it. The grains should be sharp so as to better adhere to the lime. For this reason lake or river sand is usually better than that obtained from pits. The cleanness of sand should not necessarily imply the complete absence of other earthy matters. if the sand be free from alumna or clay and vegetable deposit, the purpose of cleanness is satisfied. The presence of particles of calcareous matter is generally helpful. The sand produced by the disintegration of quartz, schist, mica and feldspar is one of the best. It is supposed that the presence of potassa in the decomposing feldspar influences the setting of the limes mixed with such sand.

Of the hydraulic limes or cements, much may be sentient. Chief among them is Portland, so called. which is manufactured from the individual clay in the valleys of rivers mixed with certain proportions of chalk, ground in mills with water, and after settlement and drying, burnt and ground to a fits powder. It is very various in quality, as your experience has no doubt found. This is often owing to the imperfect calculation of some portions and the over burning of others, if these be ground together, when the cement is used their differing qualities will be sadly parent the one setting quickly and the hard brimmed cement setting slowly. More frequently, however, at least in this country, Portland cement is spoiled by the careless way in which is stored and the length of time elapsing between its manufacture and use. It readily absorbs moisture, and consequently should be kept in a dry place. It forms one of our most valuable building materials, and if the reports and expectations concerning the deposits in the bed of a dried up lake in Grey County are realized, 1 trust we may soon have a superior Canadian Portland cement.

An element German chemist, Dr. Pettenhoffer, accounts for the hardening and non absorbent qualities of Portland cement by showing that the structure of the cement is laminar, whilst that of other cements is globular; the result of this being that the Portland cement particles touch at all points, and therefore admit of no interstices for the lodgment of water so as to promote disintegration.

The strongest Portland cement is heavy, and of a blue-gray color. The lighter cements set more quickly than the heavy, and are brownish in color. The standard quality should weigh about 110 lbs. per bushel, and it should stand a tensile strength of 500 lbs. after the cement has been made and set for 7 days under water. A simple test can be made by making up a small cake of cement and playing it in the water. If there be an over-proportion of clay the cement will become buff. If too highly burned, or if having too great a proportion of chalk in its composition little cracks will be formed all around the edge of the cake.

The base of all our ordinary hydraulic cements is a carbonate of lime combined with a silicate of clay. Generally the cement stones are burned as found, and the resultant cements vary much in quality. Some very valuable kinds of cements are those known as Magnesium, and made principally from dolomite. These stones when calcimined and powdered, form a cement which, when set in water, forms a stone of extraordinary hardness.

In 1882 a series of tests of the strength of brick piers laid with various mortars was made at the United States Arsenal at Watertown, and the following table will show the results upon the 8,, x 12" piers built of common brick. Hose in lime mortar cracked under 833 lbs. to the sq. inch; those in lime mortar 3 parts, and Portland cement spars, cracked under 1,875 lbs. to sq. inch; those in lime mortar 3 parts, and Newark and Rosendale cements s part, at 1,354 lbs. to sq. inch ; those in hose mortar 3 parts, and Roman cement one part, 1,041 lbs. to sq. inch ; those in Portland cement

part, and sand 2 parts, 1,302 lbs. to sq. inch; those with Newark and Rosendale cements s part, and sand 2 parts, only 708 lbs. so sq. inch; and those in Roman cement s part, and sand a parts, 1,770 lbs. to sq. inch.

From these it would seem that the strongest mortar for crushing weights is that composed of parts of lime mortar and s part of Portland cement while that with s part of Roman cement to 2 parts of sand was nearly as strong up to the cracking point, but its ultimate strength was much less than that with Portland cement s part, and sand 2 parts.

The consideration of wood as a building material opens up a wide range of investigation and judgment. In deciding upon the use of any wood for construction or decorative purposes, three principal matters demand consideration, sat. Its intrinsic character ; and. its suitability for the position proposed; 3rd. The best method so secure its preservation. As so the character of wood, a few general elementary matters may bear repeating. Observing the cross sections of any of our exogenous trees, there is revealed the outer bark, the fiber or inner bark, the cambium or transitional fiber from which is developed both the fiber and the wood fiber, the laburnum or undeveloped wood, the true wood and the central pith.

One good token of sound serviceable wood, is the clearness and firmness of the bark and the small quantity of laburnum. Another is the uniformity and depth of color, for if the wood lightens rapidly to the laburnum, it is a likely sign of disease. Another good sign is the fresh and agreeable odor it exhales when cut, for diseased sap will make itself known by its unpleasant smell. Another desirable feature is equality in the size of fiber, and a uniform growth and development as evidenced in the concentric rings.

Good wood is elastic, tenacious and solid, and emits a sonorous sound when struck. It cuts clean with the saw, and is bright in color and has a silky luster when planed. Diseased wood, on the other hand, emits a dull sound when struck, leaves a wooly edge when saw cut, and is dull and fiat after the plane. Unfortunately now that so much of our timber has been cut, much that formerly was passed by as inferior, is now resorted to by the lumberman. Trees are cut up for timber which are either diseased or have been subjected to adverse circumstances, and in many cases are partly dead. When from disease of the sap, a portion of a tree becomes dead, the fibers lose flexibility and strength, and are easily subjected to rot and decay. Among other diseases of the sap is that called plethora, which by reason of the over abundance and irregular supply of sap causes the fiber of the wood to be of unequal texture, and consequently untrustworthy for constructional purposes. 'The action of frost frequently causes defects in the wood by hindering the transformation of the laburnum into solid wood, causing division of the concentric rings and producing shakes. When growing timber has been subjected to alternation of strong frosts and thaws, the wood is often part live and part dead, and filled with small clefts. Twitted fibers, caused by the mechanical action of the wind on growing trees, renders much wood unfit for transverse strains. If a tree be grown in swampy ground, the continual saturation of the roots does not give the sap those essential qualities necessary for site production of good strong wood. Generally speaking, the woods grown in good soil, where there is not too much moisture, are the best. Trees growing in the open, or at the edge of a wood, where the influences of sun and wind are most felt, usually furnish better timber than those growing in the dense forest. The heaviest wood

usually the strongest of its kind. The presence of knots weakens:

