<doctype type="text">June, 1891 CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	63



ironing is clone. The cellar usually consists of one compartment containing furnace, coals and ashes, and quite unfit for the cleanly storage of food.



Housekeeper maintains that one moderate sized parlor is sufficient—a room which may be pretty and pleasant, where the man and wife can retire after the work is over and the children in bed, and where they can receive their friends free from the presence of their more common-place surroundings. Then she would have the kitchen a large, roomy apartment, the common family room, with space for two tables and two windows. The abolition of the second parlor would permit of a roomy pantry, lighted and ventilated, and a good wardrobe or clothes closet Opening off the kitchen, "Housekeeper" would have the summer kitchen, where the hot stove could be placed in the summer months, and tubs, pots and pans all the year round. She says:

"Such a ground floor for his house could not fail to win the approbation of the workingman and his wife by reason of the comforts arising from the ordered arrangement of the household thus rendered possible, and surely commends itself to the judgment of the landlord and the architect. The cost of such arrangement would not be one cent more than that of the present ill-adapted house to its users as a home, and therefore no objections could be made on that score.'



"Housekeeper" either forgets or does not know that an architect is seldom or never employed to plan houses of the class to which she refers. The speculative builder has been abroad in the land these ten or fifteen years, and to his genius must be credited the apologies for houses which disfigure so many miles of our streets. We would commend the suggestions of this very practical woman to the aforesaid builders, and would counsel him to seek out some clever young architect who will embody her views in a plan which should prove popular with her sisters who must perforce spend a large portion of her working hours in the kitchen.



<article title="more competitions" author="">MORE COMPETITIONS.

THE series of "architectural competitions," by taking part in which Canadian architects are invited to "distinguish themselves, seems far from being exhausted. Below are reprinted a couple of invitations addressed to Toronto architects during the last month

	To	ARCHITECTS AND OTHERS.



The Churchwardens of <building>St. James' Cathedral </building>Church are prepared to receive designs for the completion of the Organ Cases. Information as to general character of work proposed and Cost of same can be obtained from the Vestry Clerk at the school house.

<assoc> INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS ASSOCIATION</assoc>.



GENERAL SECRETARY'S OFFICE,

<article title="correspondence" author="sanderson, camilla">

32 CHURCH Sr., TORONTO, May 19th, 1891.

DEAR SIR—As you have perhaps heard, the <assoc>Industrial Schools' Association </assoc>intends erecting, during the present summer, at East Toronto, the first buildings for the <building>Alexandria Girls School</building>, at an expense of about $20,000. It has been indicated to us that, if requested, the city architects might make a contribution of their services in planning and superintending the construction of these buildings; and in view of this, the Board of Management, instead of asking any one specifically, have thought it only just to give all an opportunity to present designs in accordance with the enclosed general specifications. If you wish to aid us in this way, we shall be glad if you will send in to the address of the General Secretary, Board Room, 32 Church street, on or before June 10th such sketches as you may think suitable, showing elevation and arrangement.

The authors of the plans chosen, will, of course, have the superintendence of the work, and will be entitled to preference for future work.

Yours very truly,

<building>CAMILLA B. SANDERSON</building>,



Gen. Sec'y.

Two features are becoming more and more noticeable in these competitions, viz., a growing disposition on the part of corporations and individuals to obtain the ideas of architects without paying for them, and to adopt the competition scheme for the accomplishment of this object in works of small cost as well as those of more importance. In other words, the competition business is going from bad to worse. The cool assurance with which it is assumed that architects are ready to snap at any chance of securing employment, regardless of whether the competitions they are asked to enter are subject to any of the conditions which should properly govern them, seems to clearly indicate the status to which the profession has been degraded in the eyes of the public by the conduct of a portion of its members.

It will be observed that in neither of the above invitations is given the name of a competent person appointed to pronounce

judgment upon the work of the competitors, nor is the slightest reference made to the all important question of the method to be adopted for determining the merits of the designs to be submitted. The architect is expected to take a leap in the dark.

The action of the vestry of <building>St. James Cathedral</building>, besides being a direct insult to the architects who successfully carried out the recent improvements in the interior of the edifice, must prove to be extremely short-sighted from the standpoint of the church's interest. The designing of an organ case in such a position is admittedly a difficult undertaking, requiring special skill. The number of architects who could perform the work satisfactorily is extremely limited, and it may safely be asserted that not one of them will respond to the vestry's invitation. The church-wardens might better have accepted the design which is understood to have been prepared by the architects who carried out the other improvements, and of whose services they have deprived themselves by their discourtesy.

We are led to wonder by whom it was indicated to the Industrial School Association that "the city architects might make a contribution of their services in planning and superintending the construction of these buildings." Was not the "indicator" located in the fertile brain of the author of the above letter or some other promoter of the enterprise? To an outsider, the " indications" seem to point that way.

Notice how the Association dilates upon its sense of justice in giving "all an opportunity to present designs," instead of "asking any one specifically." What consideration is here displayed for those architects who might have felt themselves slighted had the opportunity not been given them to do the work for nothing How singular that this feeling of consideration did not prompt the officers of the Association to suggest something in the way of remuneration for the purpose of assisting the architects to maintain an existence. True there is the statement at the close of the letter that the "authors of the plans chosen will, of course, have the superintendence of the work, and will be entitled to preference for future work.' It is difficult to decide, however, what dependence to place on this, in view of the statement previously made that it was thought the architects might make a contribution of their services in planning and superintending the construction of the buildings.

It is cause for indignation to the architect who knows what is due to his profession, that such indignity should be heaped upon

it.	On the shoulders of men in the profession must be placed the responsibility for the present condition of affairs. In their desire to gain prominence and a temporary advantage, they have disregarded and brought into disrespect the ethics of a noble profession. As a result, the public has come to place an exceedingly low estimate upon the value of an architect's services. Every man who practices the profession must in consequence suffer to a greater or less degree, until a feeling of deeper self-respect takes possession of the class of members of which we have spoken.

It was the hope of many that the formation of the <assoc>Ontario and Quebec Associations of Architects </assoc>would tend to greater esprit du corps within the profession. That to some extent at least this hope has been disappointed, is shown by the manner in which members of both Associations have entered competitions contrary to the well-founded advice of the Executive Councils. The leniency of the treatment accorded to persons who have thus acted in violation of the wishes of the Associations and lowered the standard of public estimation for the entire profession, is well calculated to promote rather than curtail the evil. The severe example made of offenders of this class by the legal and medical societies is what secures for them public respect.

The public should not be censured for endeavoring to get its architectural work done for nothing. if every architect will honorably abide by what is known to be the tariff approved by the Architectural Associations and give the cold shoulder to every competition the terms of which do not commend themselves to the executive officers of these Associations, the profession will speedily rise to a higher plane.



Stone newly fractured should present a bright, clean appearance, with grains well cemented together. A tough test to prove whether a stone is likely to stand in the smoky atmosphere of towns is to soak it for a few days in dilute solution, containing one per cent. of sulfuric acid and hydrochloric acid.

