	62	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	June, 1891



half the fees of his inspectors. The work is for the benefit of the city, not of the architect, who has already had his fees cut down one per cent. In England an architect is paid the full rate of fees and given a clerk of works as well, The architect should, of course, nominate the clerk of works, being the proper judge of his qualifications and dependent on him for the careful continuous supervision necessary.



THE city of Toronto is sufficiently lacking in public pleasure grounds to make it desirable that those which it does possess should receive the attention necessary to maintain their highest attractiveness. The erection of the Ontario Legislative buildings has largely robbed the Queens Park of its space and beauty. Queen's avenue might be much improved, but not by the laying of plank sidewalks such as it is stated to be the intention of the city to put down. The Parks and Gardens Committee should endeavor to secure for Queen's avenue the construction of an asphalt roadway and stone or concrete sidewalks.



WITHOUT desiring to bring about changes which would impair the security of the buildings in our cities from destruction by fire, the wisdom of the regulations limiting the materials to be used in residence districts to brick and stone may nevertheless be questioned. While brick and stone may be necessary in closely built localities where a few feet at the most separates one building from another, why should the limit be drawn at these materials where under the terms of his purchase the owner of land must erect a detached dwelling on a lot of at  least fifty feet frontage? Is the loss by fire in Canadian cities less than in American cities like Detroit, where food is more largely used ? If not, then our city building laws should be amended in this particular, in order that architects may have an opportunity by using wood and other materials to achieve the artistic variety of effect which is so pleasing a feature of the residence portions of some American cities.



IT will be remembered that last year the Board of Walking Delegates of the New York Trades Unions endeavored to boycott certain brickmakers. The combination formed by the brickmakers was not sufficiently organized, and the struggle was consequently prolonged, but eventuated in the defeat of the delegates. It appears that this defeat did not teach these individuals wisdom. This season they have fallen foul of the lumber dealers, one of whom refused an insolent bully permission to inspect his shop. Boycott of course followed. The dealers combined in self-defense, stopped delivery of lumbers in the troubled district, throwing about one hundred and fifty thousand men out of employment, and bringing the autocratic delegates to their knees. The experience thus gained has proved that the haughty and high handed proceedings of these parasites of the unions can be speedily nipped in the bud by welt organized combination on the part of employers, and that they can exercise their power with impunity on individuals only.



WE noticed the other day in one of our dailies an advertisement signed by a "Village Clerk," asking surveyors to tender

·for the survey and drawing of a plan of the village. The notice wound up with the usual proviso in regard to the lowest or any tender. There is no hint of any desire for suggestions looking to the best effects from a landscape or topographical point of view, but the purpose seems to be to simply get the boldest plan, sufficient to meet the requirements of the Registry Act, and for the lowest possible sum of money. We have in our mind a case where the promoters of a summer resort for economical reasons instructed their surveyor to lay out the grounds and avenues in square blocks, in spite of the fact that the topography of the site suggested an infinite variety of winding roads with gentle inclination, giving vistas of lovely bits of landscape and interesting glimpses of land and water. But the almighty dollar prevailed, and all suggestions of artistic treatment were brushed aside. There is a large field for educational advancement amongst our people in these matters.



THE construction of a belt line railway around three sides of the city of Toronto, has been under way for several months past, and will soon be an accomplished fact. The completion

of this road should be greeted with satisfaction by the workingmen of the city. By its means they will be enabled to live in pleasant surroundings in the suburbs, instead of in the undesirable locations in which they are now placed by lack of ability to pay high rentals consequent upon the value of land in desirable localities in the central parts of the city. Of late years the scarcity of houses obtainable at a moderate <doctype type="text">

rental, and the lack of means of rapid transit to the outlying districts, has been very much felt by the working classes. The latter provision will soon be found in the belt line, and instead of living in a tenement house flat as he would soon have to do, the laborer and artisan with their families may enjoy pure air, and if so inclined, may easily become the owners of a piece of land and a comfortable dwelling. Those architects who have been working for nothing in the various competitions of the last two years, might better have exercised their philanthropy by preparing a series of well-planned workingmen's houses, especially designed to improve the health and happiness of the working classes.



ONE of the most important improvements which Toronto and the general travelling public may look forward to with pleasurable anticipation is the proposed new <building>Union Station</building>, which will probably be ready for use some time in the year 1893. The present structure, although extensive, is little better than a way station. Travelers and loungers jostle each other on a platform common to all, while some trains cannot be reached without crossing tracks or even climbing over the platforms of intervening cars to the imminent risk of life or limb should they suddenly begin to move. The platform on the Grand Trunk side cannot be reached without crossing at least three tracks, which are seldom free of stationary or moving trains. It is proposed to make the new station a terminal one that is, one without tracks passing through it. Trains for the east will back in from the east, and those for the west, from the west. This is accomplished in an ingenious manner. 'The central building, or station proper, is to be projected through or across the tracks, as ii were cutting them in two. Through trains will pass to the southward on special tracks. In the main building a large central waiting room or hall will give access through doors and gates on either side to the platform of the particular train desired, so that even the most uninitiated need make no mistake as to the proper train to take. The trains will stand in the open an-, while the platforms will be covered with "umbrella" sheds, a much cleaner arrangement than that of the present smoke begrimed edifice. The various retiring rooms, baggage rooms,

are planned with regard to the latest ideas and as the central building is to be several stories in height, the opportunity is presented of erecting a building of commanding proportions and good design, which it is to be hoped the railways will not fail to profit by.

<article title=" CORRESPONDENT " author="">

A CORRESPONDENT in a late number of the Week signing herself" Housekeeper" has made some very practical comments on the lack of suitable planning displayed in the typical working-man's house which is rented for ten or twelve dollars per month. She complains in the first case that as a rule the rents are too high for the average workman's income, about one-fourth of which is sunk in providing shelter for himself and his family. In former times the workman had a cottage not too far from his work. This cottage had a small parlor and a large apartment which was living room and kitchen combined—a desideratum where the housewife has to combine in herself all the functions of cook, nurse, seamstress and housekeeper. The cottage has given place to the pretentious row, or the semi-detached house, with rent far beyond the means of the mechanic, and he has had to move to the outskirts, near the terminus of a street car line, where acres on acres and rows on rows of rough cast houses with brick veneered fronts have been put up for his accommodation. These houses contain on the ground floor a kitchen and two rooms, practically double parlors, each being considerably larger than the kitchen. The kitchen is a cramped, narrow room, depending for its light and air upon a narrow space between it and the adjoining kitchen. It has little or no pantry accommodation; a narrow cupboard about the depth of a good sized plate has to contain the crockery, the food cooked and uncooked; and most likely this cupboard is in close proximity to the stove. Here the family eats, and here the washing and

