<doctype type="text">	74 CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	July, 1891



not needed for the closet, together with the incombustible garbage and refuse, should be ventured periodically by earls.

	CELLAR	DRAINAGE.



Cellar drainage can lie best secured by keeping out surface waters by proper ditches and channels, anti by lowering rig the water by the use

drain tile

The ordinary cast iron sink of the hardware shop, if it has a proper fixed strainer, and if properly supported, and if kept well painted, is perfectly safe and is cheap. Galvanized iron or pressed steel sinks and porcelain lined sinks are better lint more expensive.

 WATER CLOSET.

In houses renting for more than $12 per month a water closet should he substituted for the outside slop sink and the dry ash closet, this uric fixture combining its itself water closet, urinal and slop hopper.

This fixture should be of strong earthenware with all parts easy of access, so that need of cleansing may ire apparent to the eye before any other sense is cognizant of the fact.









































A small well or pit about 2 feet square and I 2 feet deep should be built of  brickwork about 2 feet front the cellar wall at the point of exit of the crane, thus pit to serve as a small catch basin, preventing entrance into the street tile or basin tile of dirt, sand, or other foreign bodies. I urn this pit the drain tiles (laid outside the foundation walls, and its wet springy ground,  under tie cellar floor should empty.

The exit should not be less than 18 inches deeper than the floor of the cellar.

In most eases it is desirable no place a trap on this drain as near be Intel as possible and the wire netting should be placed over the islet.

The cheap cottage, renting at per month or less, has most been provided

for.

THE KITCHEN SINK



In houses renting front $5 to $12 per month, a kitchen sink is the only

inside fixture	required. the outside	slop hopper	being still retained	for

 chamber slops, as well as the dry ash closet for nightsoil.







































































ibis sink should be of iron, preferably porcelain lined, properly trapped and the trap ventilated by a pipe not less than 2 inches in diameter, carried through the roof. The waste pipe should be of iron, well coated with asphaltum varnish, with screwed joints its or run with lead and caulked. The house sewer should be four inches in diameter of vitrified salt-glazed sewer pipe except for five feet entering the wall of tire house which should be of cast iron ' extra heavy soil pipe 4 inches in diameter.

'lire closet above shewn is one of the best of tie cheaper closets its the market. it has a broad base, thus being not easily loosened by rough usage. The '' horns" for connections are very strong and well proportioned thus not easily brokers oft by carelessness or by accident. The outlet is at the front not obstructed in arty way by bends--thus allowing of instant inspection arid easy cleansing The flush is thoroughly effectual anti riot spattering, as many otherwise good closets unfortunately do. This closet is of so heavy and strong a design that no supports are necessary for the seat, which rests directly on bowl, but rubber cushions should he placed on lower sine of the seat. The hinged seat should be counterbalanced to present danger from rough usage.

No hart of closet pipes or connections should he encased wit Is any woodwork whatever. '[lie wooden seat as shown is all tine woodwork required



































 7,



The water closet compartment should lie well lighted and ventilated by a shaft extending front the ceiling over the fixture to the outer air, to the

cock loft " of the building or to is dire or chimney; this shaft to be not less than 40 inches its area.

In any building or house only two fixtures are absolutely necessary for the removal of liquid household wastes ant-I the excreta, viz., the water closet and the kitchen sink and except for the great inconvenience tine water closet could be made do for both.

In choosing a water closet avoid ''pan closets," " plunger closets," ''valve closets" and '' hopper closets." A simple washout closet ins one piece, with front outlet, is the best closet of moderate cost now made,

OTHER FIXTURES

The addition of baths, wash bowls laundry tubs, etc., are conveniences, not necessities but in putting in a soil pipe '' stack " connections should be left for bath at least, and for any other fixtures that will probably lit' added within a few years. These connections should be securely plugged.

The fewer and more simple the fixtures are, however, the less becomes the possibility of danger from poor plumbing, and the less the first cost anti annual maintenance.

