<doctype type="text">July, 1891 CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE WORKING QUALITIES OF PAINT " author="Pease, F. N. and Dudley, C. B.">THE WORKING QUALITIES OF PAINT.*

PAINTING may be divided, according to the use to which the paint is put, and especially according to whether it is expected to protect a surface or not, into two classes. The first of these classes is generally known under the head of" house painting," and covers the painting of all surfaces, where the paint itself is not only expected to give the appropriate color that is desired, but also to protect the surface against the weather. The other kind of painting is known as

"coach painting," in which the color is the thing sought for the protection of the surface, and also of the coloring material of the paint, being secured principally by the varnish. These two kinds of painting are characteristic and distinctive, and both require different qualities in the material to he used.

In order that paint, to be used for house painting and analogous purposes, should work well, two or three points seem to be essential. First, it must not run off the work second, the brush marks made during application must disappear later and third, the work must not appear spotted or streaked. In general these qualities are obtained by what is commonly known as proper

mixing, although the grinding, the purity of the oil, and the kind of dryer used all have influences.

The running of paint may be due to two or three causes. The paint may be applied too thickly for the kind of paint used for example, to put on as thick a coat of very thin paint as paint containing a larger percentage of pigment would inevitably result in the paint running. Of course linseed oil alone can be applied to a surface with a brush without running, provided too much is not put on, and the greater the percentage of liquid in a paint, the thinner the coat must necessarily be. This application of thin coats is a very common fault, especially in contract painting. Where the pigment is strong in coloring and covering power, the temptation is to put on very thin coats, which temptation is increased by the fact that thin coats dry quicker than thick ones. Of course with proper care in using a very thin paint, there need be no difficulty from running. Another cause which may lead to running is want of proper grinding. The finer and better mixed the pigment and liquid are, the less the tendency to run. A paint mixed tip by simply stirring the dry pigment into the liquid, is more apt to run than one which has been ground. The oil leaves the coarser portions of the pigment, and carries off the finer portions with it, resulting in streaks down the work. With proper proportions between the liquid and pigment, this difficulty can he obviated, but some pigments, as is well known, cannot be ground, and are therefore always used by simply mixing with the liquid, but a paint otherwise good and properly proportioned may give difficulty from running if it was not finely enough ground. Still another cause of running is too long a time after the paint is put on before it sets. We have mixed tip two paints, one of which would take a set, although not dry, from six to eight hours, and another

* Extracts from a series of articles on practical railroad information the results of chemical and practical experiments, by <person>C. B. Dudley</person>, chemist, and <person>F. N. Pease</person>, assistant chemist. of the <firm>Pennsylvania Railroad</firm>, Published in the Railroad and Engineering Journal.

which would not take a set in twice that time, the amount of pigment and liquid and thc grinding being exactly the same, and the second would run, while the first would not. It is very easy to see why this should be so. A thin layer composed of liquid and pigment, maintaining its limpidity, and being in a vertical position for a long time, will run off from the surface more readily than one which does not maintain its limpidity. although other things are the same. The paint which takes a set, thereby losing its limpidity, resists the strain which produces the flowing or running in the other paint. Adulterated oil, especially linseed oil containing petroleum product, is liable to this same difficulty, and for the same reason, namely, the oil on the surface maintains its limpidity for a long time. thus giving gravity a long time in which to act upon the paint. The obvious remedy for running due to this cause is to rise such an amount of dryer, with pure oil, that it will take a set from four to eight hours, and where the difficulty is due to adulterated oil, the remedy is apparent without explanation.

The difficulty of the brush marks remaining prominent in paint is largely a question of the relative amounts of liquid and pigment, although not wholly so. The nature of the liquid used comes in as an element. For example, if a large amount of very thick Japan is a constituent of the paint, or a heavy, viscous, boiled oil, other things being equal, the brush marks will have a tendency to be more prominent than where raw linseed oil and a limpid Japan are used, but the proportions of liquid and pigment are, nevertheless, in all cases the important consideration. If the liquid is viscous and sluggish in movement, less pigment is required with a very limpid liquid more pigment can be used without causing the brush marks to be prominent. It is also quite probable that the grinding has an influence on the degree of permanence of the brush marks. Coarsely ground

paint, under no circumstances, would allow the brush marks to flow out as readily as where the pigment is in a very fine state of division, and with that perfect onion between the pigment and the liquid which is produced by fine grinding.

Streaked of spotted painting may be due to two or three causes. It often happens that the pigments made use of are what may fairly be termed " composite," by which is meant different chemical substances constitute pigments, and often in cases where the pigment is nearly all one chemical substance, as in chrome yellow or white lead, it frequently follows that materials made at different times differ in both shade and fineness, but are subsequently mixed together. In all cases where a pigment is composite our experiments seem to indicate that there is a tendency for the very finest particles to separate from those which are coarser, so that each successive brushful taken out of the bucket may contain a larger percentage of the fine, and a smaller percentage of the coarse particles than the previous brushful, at least while the first half of the bucketful is being used out. In some paints it is actually noticeable that the last end of the job is of a different shade from the firs' especially if the painter has not stirred his bucketful of paint frequently. This separation of the different constituents of the paint is also especially true of those composite pigments which are made up of some heavy basis, with some organic or light coloring matter for example, Tuscan red, which, as is well known, is a mixture of oxide of iron known as Indian red, with some of the red lakes. It may fairly be claimed that this difficulty of spotted or streaked work is note a question of care on the part of the painter than of the proper mixing or proportioning of the paint, and this is to a certain extent true, but it is not wholly so. Poorly ground paint is especially liable to give streaked results, and no amount of subsequent stirring or mixing on the part of the painter will make it pigment consisting of very coarse and very fine particles a good one to spread, or make it give a good—looking job. Both fine grinding and great care on the part of the painter are essential to obviate this difficulty. It of course goes without saying that those pigments which, from their nature, have a tendency to produce this difficulty should not be mixed where it can be avoided, although in our belief fine grinding will almost entirely overcome it with any pigments, whatever they may be.

It will be observed from above discussion that the essentials of good working house paints are fine grinding pure oil, proper  mixing, and the proper amount of dryer, together with good judgment and care on the part of the painter. Of these essen-

