<doctype type="text">August, 1891 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	83



level ceiling or not. If canulever brackets frame into a plate girder from one side and floor beams from mother side, and a level ceiling is required, then rivetheads in lower flanges of girders should be countersunk. Ample room should he given around columns for fireproofing, so that a whole block of tile at least inches thick can be built up independent of clamps or wire. in no instance should the fireproofing around the column be omitted for the sake of lack of room to case same with marble. if all these points would receive a little store attention many hours of bother and  worry would be spared to the party who is designing a building where such construction occurs. All these items should he carefully shown on plans, and superintendents should see that they are carried out as shown.

Plans and specifications for fireproofing should clearly and distinctly specify what is required. Details and section, &c., should lie shown of everything required. It is simply appalling to lead some of the specifications of this work that are written nowadays. Everything is left for the fireproofer to ferret out as best lie can. 'Ibis is entirely wrong, as it shows

either a lack of knowledge of this important branch of building			construction

or disgraceful	carelessness.	Each and every different piece of work	should

be itemized noting in what stories each kind of work is wanted and sizes of material required A new specification must be written for every new building, as it is impossible to expect a standard or office specification to hold good regarding construction of work, owing to great variations its design. They are at the same time confusing and misleading, causing an endless amount of bother.

Iron contractors should furnish every piece of iron construction regarding framing work. T irons and clamps under lintels should be furnished by fireproofer. All holes for pipes through flours and partitions, &c., should he bored by plumber, gas or steam-fitter. Plasterer should replace all tiles be has displaced during iris work. And finally, one and all contractors should be held responsible for any damage to work of another contractor's, any cost of replacing stitch work to lie charged to him and taken out of his final payment. It will he found that, by making such rulings as just mentioned, you will not be continually called upon to settle clashes that occur between contractors and owners of buildings.

Fur heights of long partitions that are not braced or bonded into any crass partitions, the following rules regarding thickness of partitions should he followed: :—3-inch partition, 12 feet high 3 1/2-inch partition, 13 feet high 4-inch partition. 14 feet 6 inches high 5-inch partition, 17 feet 6 inches high 6-inch partition, 20 feet high 8-inch partition 25 feet high.

Partitions can he built a great deal higher, but rave to be built is such a manner that a space is left between, which is governed by tire height desired. This, of course, necessitates two rows of tile, or double partition, as lateral stiffness is what you have to look out for. Smoke stacks and elevator shafts can be built to any height desired it tire proper sized tiles are selected.

For spans of flat floor arches, the following sized spans should be used. These spans are the extreme limit which should lie allowed. 6-inch arch, 5 feet 7-inch arch, 5 feet 6 inches ; 8-inch arch, 6 feet 9-inch arch, 6 feet

6 inches 10-inch arch, 7 feet 12-inch arch, 7 feet 6 inches. The spacing of beams should not be governed by airy sized span given to you, but should be governed by the load that is to be applied on beams. If it is found that strength of beams is sufficient for such spans, that settles all questions regarding same.

If fireproofers are called on to estimate on any work where iron construction is used, they requite both can and general diagram.





<article title=" HOLLOW WOODEN CONSTRUCTION " author="Yates, Dent">HOLLOW WOODEN CONSTRUCTION.

A DEAL of missionary work will have to be done in this country to reform the hollow wooden construction which is tire bare of so much of our building, says the Northwestern Architect. Prof. <person>John M. Ordway </person>has prepared a valuable table showing time conductivity of many substances, and throws more real light on the real value of the use of air spaces as heat savers than anything which we remember to have seen. 'the experiments were made uniformly by collecting tire heat radiated from a square foot of heating surface across or through 1 inch of the materials to be tested, and the heating and absorbing surfaces were maintained as nearly as possible at a difference of 100 F. 'lire results were given in British heat units, the time of each test being one hour. 'lime simple air spaces were tested in two ways—first, with the heating and absorbing surfaces vertical and separated by r inch of air second, with the heating surface above and tire absorbing surface 1 inch below it. It will be seen that in the latter case only radiation and conductivity would act, while in the former convection would come in place. As a consequence the beat units transmitted were in the first experiment 108 and in the second (without convection) 43. As the air spaces of buildings are rarely or never placed as in the second experiment but are relied upon to prevent tire escape of heat front a side or underneath, and as a greater thick-tress of air space would only leave a freer circulation we say assume that under tire conditions usual its building more titan coo heat units would probably be transmitted across an air space for each foot of surface per hour, when the different sides vary in temperature, as in Professor Ordway's experiments. It is worth while to know that tinder the same conditions of temperature 1 inch in thickness of soft woods (across tire grain) or their sawdust will transmit about 75 units, the best slag wool, 50; wool, 36, and hair felt, 56. 'tire list of substances given is a long one, very practical, and, we think, adds much to the exact knowledge hitherto available.





The company recently organized at Owen Sound for the manufacture of Portland cement have expended about $100,000 on buildings and plant.

<article title=" HOW TO FIGURE ON PLUMBING WORK " author="Yates, Dent">HOW TO FIGURE ON PLUMBING WORK.*

FIRST of all, read the specifications through hr carefully, if there are any specifications, and figure to do the job tire way they are written. Don't guess at the intent of the specifications you might get left, especially if you have never figured for the party before. For instance, a certain plumber figured on a set of specifications some time ago which called for a 6-inch extra heavy pipe running horizontally and out through tire roof, lie supposed, of course , it was a mistake as the house was only a small one with one bath t room, but he did not ask tire architect he was afraid to bother him, and he knew that four incites was absolutely large enough, and he thought the other plumbers would not know any setter ; so ire figured on four inches, and figured it close, lie got the job, and much to iris surprise and disappointment, tire owner was an ex—tunnel contractor and wanted the pipe just that size. in vain our friend talked fouling sum-face, insufficient flush, etc. The ex-contractor closed his left eve knowingly, and said " Me bye, that's what I used to tell the railroad company when my tunnel was lusts small, only I could not work tire fouling surface gag Result our friend made no money on his job.

In tire next place, read the	specifications carefully so as its leave out nothing. Measure the length of soil pipe, vent and waste supply and safe waste pipes. Then the writers plan is to have a schedule of trimmings to go with each fixture; for  instance each tank water closet, put up according to our city

plumbing rules, which requite 1 1/4 inch tee, 1/4 inch brass ferrule, t5 pounds sheet lead, 6 feet 1 1/4 flush pipe, 8 feet 1/2 inch strong lead supply from tank to floor, 2 1/2 feet 2—inch lead vent, and some either essentials such as tack solder, etc. These trimmings, I call them for want of a better name, I have carefully noted down in a small book tire net cost of each item anti the total cost of all tire items. Then if the closet sets on a marble floor, or if any other variation from tire standard way of putting up closets is used, it is vastly easy to deduct that particular item the set of items. Tire writer uses the same system with wash stands, an itemized schedule from cocks to strider, and the same methods for bath tubs, sinks, urinals, and all other ordinary fixtures. It is readily seems that by having tire net cost of the fixtures wills the trimming added to tire floor line and tire vents 2 ft. six 1 inches from the trap, that this method saves a good deal of small detail work and guessing, besides saving a vast amount of time. If only one basin cock is used on a slab or some particular priced trap is specified, or some point of this sort comes rip, it can more readily be taken c-are of in this stay than in any other known to tire writer besides, this method does away with many uncertainties which some plumbers encounter when they figure soil pipe putt up so much per foot, fixtures at list to allow for trimmings, etc. Its the matter of trenching for sewer or water services, tire writer usually estimates the digging per foot as the soil is very moist its this section. But tire pipe is

always figured at net prices. The last and most important point of all is, of course, the labor. There is, however, or use point to lie considered in figuring labor, which if not taken into account will bankrupt tire wealthiest plumber. it is trot how many days can tire plumber dos it in, but how many clays will Ire do it its. It will not do to be too great an optimist on labor. Take men as you find them, then figure a fair clays work, and then see that you get it. But recollect, after you have figured all your lines of pipe, ail your fixtures and labor', then comes the riddle like that propounded by the Sphinx of old: How much



profit shall I acid ? And those who fail to answer it, like tire older victims, will perish; tire difference, however, is, the



plumber will perish of starvation in place of tire shorter death of being gobbled up. Before figuring tire profit expected on a



plumbing contract, it is almost unnecessary y to say that time items of material anti labor should lie closely looked never to see that nothing is left out or repeated. It is best, in time writer's judgment, to study tire proposed job from water services to fixtures just as if he were doing this job himself in circular to intelligently judge the amount of labor required tin tire work. It is always a



'Abstract of a paper read before tire <assoc>Master Plumbers' Association </assoc>of Kansas City, Mo,, by <person>Dent Yates</person>,

