<doctype type="text">	82	THE CANADIAN	August, 1891



<article title=" FIREPROOF ROOF CONSTRUCTION " author="Hoeppner, E. H.">FIREPROOF ROOF CONSTRUCTION.*

ROOF construction of a building is a very important point of fireproof construction, this being the access for fire from above, caused by sparks and flames of any burning neighboring structure. The cheapest and best fireproof construction that can be obtained is gained by the using of T iron and book tile. T irons should be regularly spaced at 18-inch centres, following outline of slopes in roof which is given by the change of level of roof beams upon which T iron rest. these T's should be held in position with iron clamps to roof beams. Two and one-half inch or 3-inch T's are generally used for this mode of construction. The size of the T iron governs the size of the book tile that has to be laid between them. If 2 1/2-inch T's are used, 2 1/2 inch tile must be used. 'This will bring the top of the tile about of an inch over the edge of the stem of the T. The main of book tile is given tile, owing to its shape which is like a book. Good tight joints are obtained by using this tile, as one tile fits in the other, which does away with a vertical joint, which in no case should be allowed on a roof. All tiles should be bedded in mortar and all joints along T's should be slushed up, leaving an entire smooth surface. If a concrete is desired on the roof, upon which tarred paper and gravel is to be laid, it should never be composed of either cinders or crushed stone mixed with sand and cement and water. This is a glaring error which is quite frequently indulged in. No matter how hard you try to get an even surface, you will always find a cinder or stone here and there sticking up. which cuts through the tarred paper, and if walked upon injures the roof. A concrete composed of sand and cement will answer first for this purpose. I cannot see why it is that a concrete is at all necessary. It is better for the roofer and cheaper to apply the tarred paper direct on the tile, using a ply or two more of tarred paper. The cost of same is amply made up by omitting concrete. 'These remarks apply to flat roofs. Where roofs have a rake not over 45 degrees. a similar construction (as aforementioned) regarding tile work can be followed. If rake of roof is any steeper, each tile should be either wired or bolted to T-irons. This is especially necessary when a part of the roof drops off to a vertical line. One or two-ply of tarred paper should cover these roofs before slates or roof tile are nailed in them. Roofs that are to be used as promenade decks require a stronger construction regular floor arches are required here. Trusses that support roofs or carry additional loads should be thoroughly fireproof, as this is a vital point of fireproof construction. If this is not done it exposes the steel and iron to the heat of a fire that may start below them consequently a grave danger threatens the destruction of the trusses and whatever they may support. This construction occurs mostly in theatres and large halls. If lower chords of trusses carry a floor, or, in other words, the ceiling of the auditorium, the entire truss should he fireproofed, no matter if it is cut oft from below by this floor or ceiling. If truss is so designed that lower chords show below ceiling-line, they should have especial attention as regards fireproofing.

Suspended ceilings are only used to shut off the roof construction from view, and to give a level ceiling, therefore this construction is very light. Hangers are suspended from the roof-beams, to which T-irons, say 3 times 3 inches, are attached ; spacing latter about feet centres. On these, at right angles to the direction they take, 1-inch T-irons are spaced 12-inch centres. Between the c-inch T's a light tile is set, to which plastering is applied from below. The general construction of to-day, in our modern fireproof buildings, is to make the ceiling of the last floor as strong as a regular floor. This is done to afford ample storage space and still more important space for pipes, tanks and machinery.

Furring of the inside of outside walls with hollow tile is the most thorough preventative against moisture penetrating through a wall. Each tile should be carefully and regularly set. The thickness of tiles used for this purpose are 1 1/2 inch and two inches. You can therefore see that they depend a great deal on the condition of the wall to which they are to be applied. These walls should be as plumb on the inside as they are on the outside. The use of wood for this purpose should not be allowed, as it is not fireproof or moisture proof. Moisture will affect wood so that dark discolorations will appear on plaster, every lath and strip being clearly shown. Corrugated iron laths and wire lathing are also applied to these walls, but also show the defect of this construction as wood laths. Hollow air spaces are sometimes built in walls to overcome this defect, but that is too expensive a construction and takes more room for walls. The use of porous bricks is the best construction for this purpose. The good qualities of this material have been mentioned before,

Skylight curbs should be built from ceiling-line of last storey, or attic floor, through roof. This is a very important feature of a fireproof structure. No windows should be called for in these curbs. Any light that is necessary for attic should either come direct through roof or through outside walls. These curbs are generally called for to he built of hard glazed tile laid in pure cement mortar, and all joints to be neatly struck. This is supposed to constitute the finish of this part of the work, This construction may look very nice, hut it is not fireproof. It is in a dangerous locality, as the draft

·	of any fire that may occur in the storey below will invariably be carried up in this direction, owing to the ventilators in the skylight above. Heat and

·	water will splinter this wall in a very short time. Consequently flames and smoke will have access to the exposed roof construction, water tanks, machinery, vent flues, steam and water pipes, &c., which are located in this part of the building, and will cause dire ruin and paralyze the machinery and sanitary fixtures of the entire building. These skylight curbs should,

* From a paper read before the <assoc>Chicago Architectural Sketch Club </assoc>by Mr<person>. E. H. Hoeppner</person>.

therefore, be built of a material that will withstand the combined attack of fire and water.

Elevator pockets should be built in every elevator, in order to shut oft any smell, flames or smoke that may arise from defective machinery or sanitary arrangements in basement, as a tremendous draught is always rushing up these shafts, This would not be very pleasant or healthy for the occupants of the building. I would even cut off the useful freight elevator front running down to basement, if a partition, which would stop this draught, were not built around same in basement. Such a partition should be set back from elevator, allowing ample room to load and unload freight from same. Elevator pockets should he built as follows :—T iron should be suspended below first floor on hangers about 18 inches or 2 feet below floor beams, spacing T's 18-inch centres and setting book tile between same, Walls of pockets should he built of 3-inch partition tile. Stairs that start from basement and run up to roof should also be cut off from rest of basement by a similar partition as mentioned about freight elevators, for similar reasons.

Especial attention should be paid to see that all beams in pipe-shaft which enclose cylinders of elevators and pipes are thoroughly covered, making due allowance in the framing of your iron work that sufficient space is given so allow of one continuous line of tile. One of these shafts, should a fire get into it, would like a huge chimney. All beams in elevator shaft and stair wells should he covered. If ornamental iron fascias are called for on these beams, then the construction of same should be so designed that the iron contractor is not obliged to knock off fireproofing in order to connect his work to floor beams. The fireproofing of the beams, to which guides are attached, should never be done until guides are in place.

Raised floors for water-closets are used when the construction of a building is of such a nature as not to admit of enough space or room to carry pipes in a distinct and separate passage. These floors are built of either book tile and partition tile or book tile, partition tile and T-irons. When book tile and partition tile are used, partition tile are built in rows, about 18-inch centres, to any height upon which book tile are set. If T irons are used in addition to these tiles, partition tile are spaced in rows about 5-feet centres, upon which T's are set on B-inch centres for hook-tile, which is to be set on T's. This will admit of ample space for all pipes below floor.

Trimming of iron is a very important feature regarding fireproofing—flatarch construction. All beams should be spaced as regularly as possible. All lower flanges of beams must be on a level line. If beams are all to be level on top, they must he necessarily the same size. Channels or flat bats must be built in walls so receive skewbacks. Flat bars are preferable to channels and are cheaper. The rods should be spaced not more than 6 feet apart, for framing around stair wells and light shafts; tie rods should be spaced not more than 5 feet apart. If a 15-inch beam is used and a 9-inch arch is to he built between them, tie-rods should be put in 4 1/2 inches from bottom or lower flange, or beam will be tipped over. This is especially dangerous at well holes. If a 9-inch and a 9-inch arch are used, tie-rods should be placed in centre of beam- For like construction of different sizes of material, a similar proportion of location of tie-rods is necessary. All pipe-shafts. dumb elevators, vents and fireplaces should have iron framework around them. I beams should he used instead of channels for this purpose, as fireproofing can be more securely fastened around them. If a 20-inch girder is level on top with a 9-inch beam, then angles should he riveted to web of 20-inch girder 9 inches from top flange. 'The levels of all lintels in relation to floor lines and wood finish, should be carefully studied, raising same enough to allow ample room to apply fireproofing. This will vary at every step from 1 inch to 2 1/2 inches, according to width of lintel. In complicated framing especial attention should he given if fireproofer can apply his fireproofing after everything is framed together. Cases turn up every now and then where it is an impossibility to cover a certain vital point, after all framework is in place, which should have been put in at the same time it was framed together.

Ample sections and levels should be shown on each plan. Proper allowance for sizes of all well holes and elevator shafts should he made. It should he borne in mind that at least 1 inch should be allowed over edge of beam at these openings for fireproofing. To this you have to make allowance for ornamental iron fascias, &c. Roof beams should he securely tied together with tie rods. This is especially necessary when beams are carried on walls, the weighs of parapet and firewalls being in many cases too light and weak to stand the thrust of a series of arches. Anchors and plates should he used quite freely if you have a similar construction. These remarks apply to roofs where arches are used. If floor beams are carried on an iron skeleton which is built in walls, a similar construction is advisable when you get up as high as the attic floors and roofs. When bolts are used for connecting one beam to another, the threads of same should finish flush with the head of the nut, or should be turned around, leaving head of nut on outside. This is imperatively necessary ; if it is not done, most of the skewback or bust has to be cut to pieces as a square bearing is necessary. This will naturally weaken the entire arch.



T irons for roof construction should be spaced regularly. Odd spaces to be worked over next to walls. T's should also he securely fastened to roof beams with clamps. Ceiling should be spaced similar to roof T's Clamps are not necessary. Spacing of T's for bay construction should be carefully looked after. Odd spaces should always be worked over to end walls. If cantilever brackets occur a similar spacing should be followed, leaving odd space against bracket. Complete sections should be given of this work for every floor if there is any change of levels, showing if T's are bent over flanges of beams or rest direct on them, also showing whether you want a

