

<doctype type="text">

IN view of recent decisions of the English Courts, the Council of the. <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects </assoc>have formally declared that in cases of partnership between architects, it is neither proper nor professional for one partner to claim, except with the expressed concurrence of the other, the entire credit of a design executed by the firm.





The year 1892 will probably witness unusual activity on the streets of 1 of onto. The street railway has been disposed of to a syndicate which is bound by the terms of its lease to substitute electric traction for horses within one year on certain of the leading thoroughfares. This will necessitate the reconstruction of the present tracks. This reconstruction, fortunately for the citizens, nines at a time when new and permanent pavements are an absolute necessity on these thoroughfares, consequently both improvements will be carried out at the one time. It is the intention of the Board of Works to have everything in readiness to proceed with the laying of permanent pavements on King, Queen and Yonge streets in the spring of '92 The material to be used will in all probability be asphalt, Several leading streets have been asphalt during the last three or four years, and with such satisfactory results, that this class of pavement is rapidly growing in favor.



<article title=" In its architecture, as in many other respects, the city of  Montreal exhibits greater conservatism than Toronto " author="">

 In its architecture, as in many other respects, the city of  Montreal exhibits greater conservatism than Toronto. In the line of domestic architecture especially, the architects of Montreal and Quebec appear to be either unwilling or afraid to deviate from the old paths. As a result, the residence streets of the city are less interesting to the student in quest (If new ideas than they otherwise might be. Without attempting to defend modern architectural styles in all their phases, it must be admitted that in many respects they are more pleasing anti interesting than the (lid. The almost universal use of grey stone in the more expensive residences also serves to impart sameness to the residential districts of Montreal. The observer is strongly impressed by the air of solidity which everywhere confronts him, but after a time tires of this, and would faint rest his eyes now and again upon buildings more varied in outline and coloring. While the freest use appears to be magic of modern materials for interiors, those for exterior use are only to a limited extent taken advantage of. No doubt the conservative tastes (If their clients have deterred the architects of the Province of Quebec from departing more widely than they have done from old traditions, but there is reason to believe that in future the exteriors as well as interiors of their buildings will be more expressive of modern architectural progress.





To avoid clashing between tile operations of the Roads and Water Departments of the city of Montreal, which in the past has sometimes led to annoyance and expensive bungling, the proposal was recently made to place both departments tinder one management. The proposal led to a compromise arrangement for the present, which is, that the heads of these departments shall n future confer with one another prior to entering upon any work where conflicting interests might arise. Toronto and other cities have also experienced difficulty along the line mentioned, leading, as in the case of Montreal, to consideration (If the advisability of vesting the entire control of the streets in the City Engineer. The success of this plan would largely depend upon the executive ability of the person into whose hands would be committed so great responsibility. When it is remembered how important and varied are the interests committed to the charge of the general manager of a great railway corporation, the successful working out of the principle cannot he questioned provided as has already been stated, the right man is found to fulfil the duties of the position. Such men are of course, scarce, and command large salaries. The plan is to K tied in Montreal, is one which should prove satisfactory, if the he is of the departments concerned will tinder-take to carry it out in the proper spirit. On this will depend its success or failure. It is unfortunately trite in some cities that feeling of petty jealousy prevails regarding the authority which the head of each department considers is his exclusive right to exercise. Where there is this feeling, the Montreal plan would prove a fail ii re. Under such circumstances, the system by which authority is centralized instead of being divided appears to be the one most likely to promote harmonious, effective and economical administration.





THERE will shortly be a chance in Toronto to show what can be done by electricity on a city street railroad. Up to the present time electric roads in Canada have been confined to one or two short lengths of suburban railway. In fact, taking the continent ii all over with the exception of Boston, electric roads, though many in number, have been principally operated in the smaller cities. Large centres of population, however, are rapidly coming into line. Cleveland and Buffalo being the latest additions to the list There is no question but that the electric car is the ideal of urban transit. Its cleanliness-- the number of horses used on the streets being reduced by thousands —the decrease in wear and tear of the road its rapidity of motion and docility (if such a word may he permitted), added to the ease with which it in may be handled, stopped, started and reversed in

a crowded thoroughfare are but a few of its many advantages. The conversion (If the present street railroads of Toronto, which must be done in the near future, to an electric system, will involve the construction of immense steam anti electric works in the city. In tile first place, steam power to the extent of between three and four thousand horse power will be needed. This will require buildings, engines, boilers, pumps, immense smoke stacks and foundations. Then there will be the electric generators, which will no doubt conform to the most recent practice of large power machines driven by interchangeable mechanism to allow of each being stopped and started independently of the others. The overhead construction will require a large amount of copper and line material, and the roadbeds will require relaying with the most approved form of rails. The cars and electric motors will not he the least part of the undertaking, anti if built and equipped in the city will he equivalent to the introduction of a new industry amongst us.





As promised last month we publish n another page the examination papers of <assoc>the Quebec and Ontario Associations of Architects</assoc>. in the matriculation or preliminary examinations, the Quebec Association appears not to recognize the fact that many students will have already gone through the work prescribed and that a certificate (If status should be sufficient in such cases. However, the student ought to he so well up in his work that it should be a pleasure rather than a hardship to he again submitted to it. Nil boy who cannot easily take this examination should be looked upon its fit to commence his pupilage in a profession requiring so much study and versatility of knowledge. It will he interesting as time passes to compare the working of the two schemes the Quebec Association with its matriculation and final examinations and the Ontario Association with two intermediate examinations during pupilage. The latter scheme is the most elaborate (If course, and will involve more trouble and expense to the students and the Association, but it is a question if it will not in the lung run the more satisfactory to all concerned. The student will be constantly reminded of the necessity of continuous steady work in contrast

the to spasmodic, with the consequent tendency to cram

towards the end. He will also get through with and pass beyond portions of his course which would only hamper him if left to the time of the final test. We are pleased to note in the Quebec paper in the note of advice to students, that the knowledge e necessary to pass as a registered architect should be considered the minimum, and as simply the foundation for further study. <assoc>The Quebec Association </assoc>has already held its first matriculation examination, passing the two candidates who were presented, and setting an example of activity and push to the older organization in Ontario. But the latter Association, though perhaps a little slower in maturing a scheme, has evolved one which on the face of it appears to be capable of producing better results in the future.



<article title=" INCANDESCENT electric lighting " author="">INCANDESCENT electric lighting, first introduced in Toronto eighteen months ago, has made rapid advancement, and appears destined in a much shorter period than most people anticipated, to replace to a considerable extent gas its an illuminant Not alone is it largely in use in stores and large buildings devoted to business purposes, but is being adopted also for domestic lighting in many private residences of the better class. We were somewhat surprised to observe, its no doubt were many persons who were unaware of the growth of the demand for electric light for this purpose, that underground distribution mains fire being laid on exclusively residence streets. Enquiry has revealed the fact that in two or three residential districts incandescent lighting has been in operation for some time, anti others are impatiently awaiting its advent, <firm>The Toronto Incandescent Light Co. </firm>which is doing all the underground work in this line, states that it has now in operation a total of 12,000 lights, and that 90 per cent. of the better class of residences in course of erection are being wired for electric light. The present cost is one cent per hour for each 16 candle power lamp. It is claimed that tinder careful management this is little, if any, above the cost of gas. The readiness with which the light may he turned on or off without the aid of matches, by simply pressing a switch button, should result in reducing very much tile waste resulting in almost every residence where gas is used from lights being unnecessarily left burning. Whether or not the cost of the incandescent light can be made to approximate closely to that of gas, is to some extent tin open question. Aside from this, there can be no doubt that it possesses many important advantages over its older rival, It produces much less heat, is cleaner, and noes not vitiate the atmosphere. Decorative effects of a highly satisfactory character may by its means be attained. It is already being rinsed to some extent for heating purposes and will not unlikely prove to be the agency through which in the future the present laborious and costly methods of warming buildings will be superseded.





THE accident to <building>the building in Park Place, New York</building>, which occurred about noon on the 20th of last month, is one which might occur to dozens (If time same class (If buildings in any large city. It is reported to have been (If reasonably strong construction, designed and built by architects and builders of good standing. The joists were 3 x 14 on 12 and 14 inch beams

