

<doctype type="text">has his special duties to perform in connection therewith, and all united together cannot but make a strong and enduring Association which must be productive of good results in the future. The art of architecture is based on Nature, and the grandest and most perfect specimens of her handiwork are man and woman and when men are united together for any good object, the strength begotten of their union enables them to build up works of beauty and endurance. I do not hesitate to say that such a result awaits our combined efforts. I now propose the toast of the " <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>."

<person>Mr. Hopkins </person>of Montreal, in response to this toast, said

Mr. President and Gentlemen,—I feel very diffident in rising to return thanks to thc Association. Of course, having been the first president, I ought to know something of the progress of this society, and I presume I do. When we last met to-day I said a few words. As you know, I am not a man of many words, but I expressed to you how happy I was to be connected with the Association, and how gratified I was to find that during thc first year so much progress had been made. I have not the slightest doubt that the new president and officers, most of whom have been re-elected, and therefore, metaphorically speaking,

know the ropes' I have not the slightest doubt that they will be able, with the aid of a good rudder, which I am confident they will secure in some way or other, to steer the ship of our Association in its proper course for another year. Possibly, it having been our first year, the machinery may at one time have run a little loose and at another, a little stiff but with the experience already gained, and with the hearty co-operation which, I feel assured, the members outside of the Council will give to it, another year will find us in a more prosperous condition than we are at present. I must avail myself of this opportunity to thank you in the most sincere manner for the honor which you intended to bestow upon me to-day ; and I only regret that it was not in my power to accept it. I am sure my successor will prove an improvement the second edition being always better than the first, and the latest edition containing the most news—he is younger in years and has had experience both in this city and in Montreal, both of which cities will participate in the advantages to be derived from the meetings of the Association alternately (applause).

Mr. <person>A. F. Dunlop</person>, in reply, said

Mr. President and Gentlemen —It gives me great pleasure to be among so many of my honored confreres this evening

the second annual meeting of our Association. Two years ago I had not thought it possible to form this Association. Public opinion was against us in fact, most of the present members felt how hopeless such an undertaking would be. But this meeting proves that nothing is too great to accomplish, as we have not only formed the Association, but its future prosperity s also assured. There is, however, one vital and all important point, on which I wish to say a few words. The general public are not thoroughly well informed as to the object of our Association. They have an idea that we are formed into a close profession for the purpose of preventing anyone else from being an architect, and that we intend to raise the standard of our charges. Gentlemen, this is a base slander on our good intentions, We are formed into this Association for the advancement of architecture, for the better serving of our clients, and for the better education of our students ; also for the establishment of schools and classes of architecture, and for the purpose of making every architect of the future a competent one, and one whom the public may employ with confidence. Would you employ a doctor who had simply been a druggist for a few months to attend your sick child or parent ? Would you employ a notary or a lawyer who bad only been in a bailiff's office for a limited period to draft your deeds ? Then why employ a man who calls himself an architect—a man without training, and one who would put in 12" timber where it requires 24", and vice versa. Is it not a fact that the proper construction of a building is as important to life and safety as the employment of a proper doctor ? You jeopardize a light with a poor doctor, and you jeopardize a hundred lives with a poor architect. It is the architect on whom the public must rely for the proper construction of their buildings. Should not the architect be thoroughly practical, and know how to use material with economy ? Should he not know the exact requirements of the art of architecture in all its branches to enable him to satisfy the wants of the public? and as for sanitary requirements, the architect has far more to do with the health and long life of the world's great family than the physician, and is in a great degree answerable for the ailments and early deaths of many. how can all this knowledge be acquired unless we join together and establish schools, classes of architecture, libraries in our colleges for our students? Why should not every architect of the present and future be on the same footing, as regards qualification as a doctor, lawyer, notary, or druggist and why should not the public be guaranteed that he is so? I claim that an architect has as great a mission to perform, and without training anti education our public and private buildings must be at best fire traps, badly constructed, badly ventilated, badly designed, and a disgrace to our country, while on the other hand, our educated and trained students would make. architects of whom the world would be proud, and it would he an honor to belong to such a profession. An architect would then be looked up to with respect and confidence, and not as now, in many cases be regarded 

suspicion and doubt. Our ranks would be filled with qualify men who would say with Shakespeare

When we mean to build,

We first survey the plat. then draw the model

And, when we see the figure of the house,

Then must we rate the course of erection

Which, if we find outweighs ability,

What do we then but draw anew the model

In fewer offices; or at least, desist

To build at all? Much more in this great work

(Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down,

And set up another). should we survey 

The plat of situation, and the model

Consent upon a sure foundation

Question surveyors, and know our own estate

How able such a work to undergo,

To weigh against his opposite or else

We fortify on paper and in figures

Using the names of men instead of men

Like our that draws the model of a house

 Beyond his power to build it ; who, halt through

Gives o'er, and leaves his part created cost

A naked subject to the weeping clouds

And waste for childish winter's tyranny."



<person>Mr. Hutchison </person>being called upon, said

I am of course glad to take part in the first annual meeting of our Association. During the past year we have tried to lay the foundations of our Association like good architects ; anti while the foundation that we have in the Act is not, perhaps, the very best we could have had, like good builders, we must make the best of it. A great part of the work of the past year has been, and probably the work for two or three years to come will be, merely laying the foundations of our Association. The older members of the profession, like myself, who have borne the brunt and heat of the day in times past, will, perhaps, get no further than laying the foundations. We all know, however, that the most important part of a building is the foundation and while it is lost to sight, and there is nothing beautiful about it, still of the excellence of the workmanship depends the firmness of the building ; and I hope that we will be able to lay a foundation so broad and deep that this will be a lasting Association. (Applause.) I hope, Mr. President, to see a superstructure raised upon the foundation which we are now laying and I have great hopes in that superstructure being something good, from the fact of the steps we have taken to bring a proper class of persons into the profession. I am very much pleased with the late examinations for matriculation held in Montreal, I am pleased to see that so high a standard is required to enter the profession ; and to the faithful performance of the duties of the board of examiners I attach great importance in the making of our Association a success. I trust that they will be very strict in the examinations for entry into the profession. It is, I think the only means of raising our profession to a high level and I hope the Board of Examiners will ever bear that in mind. I am beginning to feel that I am getting old, and I will in a few years perhaps be out of active service. It is my earnest wish that the young men rising to will be an honor to the profession. I am looking forward with a great deal of hope to be able to see during this coming winter and succeeding winters something done towards that end by the formation of classes or the delivery of lectures to help our young men on in their studies. Of course, you are all aware that heretofore the sturdy of architecture in any of our offices has been somewhat of a farce. I do not think there is an office in the Province of Quebec where there has been a systematic teaching of architecture. For my own part I have always refused to take young men, because I knew I had no time to devote to teaching them. Now, I hope that our Association, having secured a home of its own, will establish during this winter and succeeding winters, classes in which a proper course of training will be carried out. I think feelingly on this subject, Mr. President, from the fact that all my own studies had to be carried out tinder very great difficulties. I am sure I studied for months at some subjects, when perhaps a lecture or two would have made them clear to me and saved me very great trouble. By putting facilities in the way of our young men we ought to raise tip a better class of men than the old ones ; and in this direction I trust that our Association will attain great success. (Applause,)



The toast of the sister <assoc>Association of the Province of Ontario </assoc>was proposed in a very' neat speech by the Vice-President, <person>Mr. Roy</person>, who, in the course of his remarks, said I would like to propose the toast of the sister Association of the Province of Ontario, This toast will no doubt be drunk heartily for several reasons. <assoc>The Association of the Architects of the Province of Ontario </assoc>is the first Association organized in Canada. We are the second ; but we have had their work before tins as an example to follow. Seeing the success which they haul with their Association, we in the Province of Quebec failed to see why time same success should not await our efforts in the same direction. I am happy' to see that even they have recognized the gm-eat success which we have had in Parliament amid elsewhere in the short time which has elapsed since we set about our self-appointed task. The realization of their hopes was longer deferred than ours, and it took then more time to reach the point which we have attained rum—day' than has been necessary with us. The Association of Ontario has done a great deal for the advancement of the art of architecture ; and thus have they' not only'

