<doctype type="text"><article title="Toronto Architectural Club" author="Gregg, A.H."><assoc>Toronto Architectural Club</assoc>

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR,—Will you kindly allow me space in your columns to draw the attention of the architects of Toronto to the work of the Toronto Architectural Club? It has been felt by the committee that some special effort must be made this year to augment the membership, and that a better understanding of its aims and objects might accomplish this end. This seems especially desirable as the club commences this session in new quarters, under a new name, and I may add with new and higher aspirations.

In a city the size of Toronto it requires the active co-operation of every member of the profession to make such an organization the success it deserves to be. To those who have not had the privilege of attending its meetings in the past, it might be said that the importance and interest of the papers read have been of such an order as to place the Club on an equal footing with other architectural associations not only of this country, but also with those of the United States and of England.

Owing to the fact that during last season classes were conducted for the benefit of students under its auspices, the impression may have been formed that it is merely a students' club. This of course is not the case.

4 series of papers and lectures, interspersed with exhibitions, socials, etc., is being arranged for the winter's programme, which will be of undoubted merit. It is then asked that the efforts of the officers and the labours of those who prepare the papers may be backed by the regular attendance not only of the architects of the city, but also of their students, and of that large class which is, in a non-professional way, interested in the advancement of art and architecture in our country.

The meetings are held fortnightly, in "The Forum" on the south-east corner of Yonge and Gerrard streets. At the next meeting, which will be held on Monday evening, Nov. 21st, Mr.

<person>J.	Wilson Gray </person>will read a paper on "Glimpses of Chicago and the World's Fair Buildings." A hearty invitation is extended to all interested to be present that evening, and to have their names enrolled as members.

Yours truly,

<person>A.H. GREGG</person>,

President T. A. C.



<article title="The Interior of a house" author="Bond, C.H. Acton">THE INTERIOR OF A HOUSE.

The following paper on the above subject was read by Mr. <person>C. H. Acton Bond</person>, of Hamilton, at the meeting of the club on October 17th

It is a little difficult to know exactly where to begin in speaking of the interior of a house, as so much may be taken under this heading. The object of this paper, however, being to start a discussion, it will be as well to plunge right in and chance the consequences.

Whatever may be the size or cost of a house, its interior should suggest "A Home," and it is with this as an ultimate result always in view that I shall treat the subject. Of ordinary sized houses and those where a minimum of expenditure is allowed for the interior, very little will be said, as deductions can be made from the more elaborate schemes to suit these particular cases.

That portion of the interior of a house that comes under the supervision of the architect ordinarily includes the finish of doors, windows, walls, ceilings, floors, mantels, etc., and in considering these it will be necessary to speak of the various woods and their finishes, wall hangings and decorations, relief ornament, hardware, marble, tiles, grates, etc. Every apartment in the house should receive a distinctive and suggestive treatment according to its purpose, but there should yet be preserved a harmony throughout; that is, the contrast between adjoining rooms or halls should not be inharmonious, as this produces a very unpleasant effect and gives a feeling of unrest to the occupant. It will only be necessary to speak in detail of the principal rooms, as this will give a sufficient idea of the whole scheme. The general practice of treating the dining room rather heavier and in darker tones than the other rooms seems to be very appropriate; the serious business of eating is transacted here,

and the occupants are usually sitting and in a comparative state of rest, In the drawing room it is quite the reverse, and a much lighter treatment is suitable. The parlor or sitting room should have a treatment somewhat between ; the reception room being chiefly devoted to social formalities, should receive a light and simple but dignified finish; there should not be much elaboration in the halls, and the tone ought to be rather subdued with a view to harmonize with the various rooms. The bed rooms generally should be finished in a light and cheerful manner. Special rooms, such as a billiard room or smoking room, would have to be finished very much according to the taste of the owner.

If a room is badly proportioned, it can be greatly improved by a little thought on the design of the finish, as the length, width or height can be strongly emphasized by lines in that direction. In designing the woodwork it is well to bear in mind the final completion of the scheme, so that it may have a look of unity. The main lines should be carried round unbroken as much as possible, and wherever features are introduced, such as cabinets or sideboards in a dado of panelling, they should work in with the general heights; it is a very difficult matter to apply successfully any scheme of decoration to a room in which this has been neglected.

If it is decided to finish a house in natural hardwood, some care will have to be given to its selection for the different rooms. Antique, English or quartered oak, walnut, rosewood, black ash and similar woods would do for the dining room, the lighter woods, such as bird's eye, curled or white maple, satin wood, sycamore, or white mahogany, being suitable for the drawing and reception rooms; in the sitting room, cherry, sycamore, gum-wood, white walnut, etc., could be used, and oak, cherry, or gum-wood, would be appropriate for the halls ; in the bed room it would be better to choose from the lighter woods.

Of course, the hardwood finish should all be built up, as this gives the best results ; it allows the wood to be better seasoned, and prevents cracking and warping. The veneer should be about 1/4 inch thick, built on a thoroughly dry pine core made of small pieces well glued up. When the hardwood is being put up, the house should be well heated, as this will avoid to a great extent the opening of joints, etc., after the work is completed.

For the finished floors white oak is very suitable as it is a good hard wood and looks well ; maple, pitch pine or white pine would make a good floor for the kitchen apartments. The flooring should be in narrow widths and could be laid rectangularly across the room, diagonally or in simple patterns, with butt or mitre joints. Pattern floors of different woods tongued and grooved together or simply glued on a backing, are sold by a number of manufacturers. This is known as parquet work and would look very well in some halls. Care should be taken not to have too much variety in the pattern of the woods.

For vestibule or conservatory floors, encaustic tiles, mosaic work or rubber tiles would be more suitable than wood.

In finishing wood consideration should be given to its natural effect, and this should be followed as much as possible ; for instance, red mahogany looks best with a highly polished surface, hut oak looks best when finished dull. For all ordinary finishes hardwood should be well filled. Wheeler's is one of the standard patent fillers, but there are many good ones on the market. Some painters prefer to mix their own, and usually make them of corn starch, plaster of Paris and linseed oil. Coarse grained wood, such as oak, ought to have two coats of filler. A very satisfactory way of treating oak is to give it two coats of linseed oil after being filled and each coat rubbed down with beeswax and turpentine to a dull finish. For woods such as cherry, maple, sycamore, etc., two coats of hard oil varnish applied after being filled and each coat rubbed down with pumice stone and oil, will give a good result; for a highly polished surface, from four to six coats will be required according to the nature of the wood. For finishing natural pine, apply one coat of white shellac instead of the ordinary filler, and then finish with two or three coats of finishing varnish rubbed down at each coat.

Boiled oil is commonly used for painting on account of its drying qualities, hut raw oil is more reliable and gives a better result in the end ; lead paint should be used in preference to zinc as the latter shrinks and creases. The hardwood floors should be filled and finished with Butcher's or some other reli-

