	<doctype type="text">December, 1892	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	119



<article title="Characteristics of Architectural Style" author="Stalker, G.F.">CHARACTERISTICS OF ARCHITECTURAL STYLE.

by <person>G. F. STALKER</person>.



(Continued from page 56.)

About the time when Solomon was in "all his glory (although for the temple, his palace, and other buildings erected by him he had to go outside his own kingdom for his architects and builders), the various small principalities lying towards the south-east of Europe were gradually drawing together and being cemented into one nation. There were race distinctions among those people, strongly marked and even antagonistic, and so long as they remained apart from each other, the probability is that they would have become absorbed into one of the more powerful nations to the east of them, and so have lost their individuality or have lived their allotted time in this world in a condition of mediocrity. In any case they would, in all likelihood, have left no distinctive landmarks behind them. But after many bickerings among themselves, in which (like many other great nations since that time they played a military game of see-saw, they found that they had so many interests in common, that by degrees they became fused together into one homogeneous nation. It was well for the world in general, and for art in particular, that this great event happened. 'The result of the fusion of the Hellens, the Spartans, the Dorians and others, has been a source of wonderment for the world ever since its accomplishment. Rapidly, as nations move, the principalities became unified, and then they seemed to be in a hurry to make an everlasting impression on the pages of the world's history for, as Fergusson puts it, "all those wonders of patriotism, of poetry and art, for which Greece was famous, crowded into the short space of a century and a half, is a phenomenon the like of which the world has not seen before, and is not likely to witness again.'

But, be the time of Grecian supremacy in the world long or short, this fact remains, that in Greece and that part of Asia Minor immediately under the rule of the Greeks, architecture reached its highest stage of development in ancient times ; and, in what we call classic architecture, nothing has been produced since their time, which, for beauty, for purity, or even utility, can surpass or equal the works of the Greeks. That they drew largely from Egyptian and Assyrian sources for their designs is abundantly evident, particularly in their earliest works. But in their hands everything, borrowed from whatever source, underwent a process of improvement and refinement, so that when we come to the time when they were at the zenith of their power, they had created a style of architecture distinct from anything that existed before—-peculiarly Grecian. and having in it principles upon which succeeding styles were based.

The Doric order (which was derived from an Egyptian source), was that most largely used by the Greeks in their temple and monumental buildings. At first they gave to its proportions more solidity and massiveness than was found in the Egyptian columns from which it was borrowed, and that to such an extent as to border on clumsiness. But such examples are so few in number, that we may conclude that they quickly saw their error and set about correcting it. At the same time they had no hard and fast code of proportions of the various parts of any of their orders by which they worked. The arbitrary rules which are sometimes taught in schools and academies as belonging to this and that order, were drawn up by Sir William Chambers on no higher authority than his own. But in the Grecian buildings still in existence, there are no two examples in any order which are in all respects, either as to proportions or detail, exactly alike. They have a family resemblance to one another and nothing more. It is acknowledged, however, on all sides, that the Parthenon is the most perfect example of the Doric order. And this building is so inseparably linked with (;reek art that one never thinks of the one without the other coming to mind. In outline every detail is of the very simplest, and at the same time the most effective form, bearing to each other such admirable proportion that the whole is absolutely faultless.

But the Greeks did not depend on the strictly architectural features of the buildings alone for their beauty, for with their exquisite detail and perfect masonry they united the sister arts of sculpture and painting. Without these, indeed, their buildings would have been somewhat bald, and certain parts of them meaningless. But these arts formed an essential part of the design, and were intended to, and did, give life arid dress to

what would otherwise have been very simple structures. Many of the ornaments which in some late examples were carved, were in the earliest buildings executed in color. The sculptures also were relieved by colored backgrounds, and the figures themselves were sometimes painted. It will thus be seen that a (;reek temple, when first erected, required an harmonious combination of the arts of architecture, painting and sculpture, to complete the composition.

The Ionic order was less dependent upon sculpture than the Doric -that is to say, as far as the human figure was concerned. The form of the column was mote attenuated and the whole entablature much compressed. The details were also more enriched by carving, and so the necessity for sculptured work was greatly lessened, or altogether dispensed with. In this order the columns are provided with moulded bases, and the chief features of the capital (as indeed, it is of the whole order), is its bold volute, which no doubt was derived from an Assyrian source. The same minuteness and elegance of detail, and the same finished masonry were used in this order as in the Done, though it lacks that force and vigor which is so manifest in the latter.

Towards the decline of Greek art a third order, the Corinthian, became dominant, although it was never used in buildings of first importance Its base was more elaborately moulded and its capital more richly carved than the Ionic order. Its entablature was also bolder and better suited to the introduction of sculpture 

Such are the three orders of ( reek architecture which are easily distinguishable by their capitals alone. The Doric has a square cap or abacus, with a rounded moulding underneath it the Ionic has the volute and the Corinthian has the bell of the cap richly foliated. The poet Thomson in his "Ode to Liberty, says of Greek architecture:

First unadorned And nobly plain, the manly Done rose; 'the Ionic then, with decent matron grace, Her airy pillar heaved ; luxuriant last, The rich Corinthian spread her wanton wealth. 'the whole so measured irue, so lessend off By fine proportion that the marble pile, Formed to repel the stilt or stormy waste of rolling ages, light as fabrics look'd That front the magic wand aerial rise.'

But besides the striking distinctions in the capitals of the three orders, it must be observed that the most characteristic feature of Greek architecture is that of horizontality The general squareness observable in Grecian buildings gives an indication of strength arid solidity; the long unbroken lines of entablature are suggestive of repose ; while the mouldings, consisting as they did of a variety of flowing curves soften the severity of the lines and add grace and beauty to the whole.

Though Rome was founded as early as the union of the principalities of Greece, it. passed through several centuries of its existence before erecting any buildings calling for notice, or that in any way were distinctive as regards architectural style. Conquest and the accumulation of wealth seem to have been the motive power of Rome as a republic. During this time neither art nor letters received much attention or encouragement from this restless, fighting conquering people. But after the great powers of the world had been subjugated, and made tributary to Rome—when she became the capital of Europe and mistress of the world—then during a period of comparative peace she became the lodestone that drew to herself all the learning and the art that had flourished in other countries. Art treasures in immense quantities, captured in her successful wars, were poured into her lap. Artists from Greece and Asia and Egypt flocked into the imperial city in great numbers, and then sprang up in rapid succession innumerable buildings of much larger dimensions of more costly adornments, anti for a greater variety of purpose than the world had ever known.

The claims of the business life of a busy people had to be considered, and so architecture spread its wings, and instead of being confined to temples, palaces and tombs it took within its wide and friendly embrace buildings of every description. Baths, market-places, theatres, monuments, aquaducts, bridges, villas, gateways— -anything in short that was built was by them treated architecturally. They seemed to consider that what was worth building was worth building artistically. Architecture

