<doctype type="text">October, 1892	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	99



great institution ; and I think that you, gentlemen, should all do your utmost to bring about this most desirable state of affairs. Many of you have rich clients and, if you have not persuaded them to spend too much already (laughter), you might persuade them to assist in founding, not merely a chair of architecture, but a department of architecture (cheers). It is of the highest importance I think in these days that students for this profession especially, should have the very best preliminary training. Young fellows preparing for the architect's profession, should have the very best training that school and college can afford. The best educated man in these days is bound to come to the Front. That is the way in the United States. We have men in Montreal perfectly well able to superintend this education. The noble buildings we see on all sides, put up by our own men, are in themselves evidence that our architects are equal to anything that may be required of them. It seems to me strange that when any particular building for some special purpose is required, there seems to be a desire to go to the other side oft he border, as if the work could not be done here. Sometimes—I am not quite sure—but I think that the buildings erected by foreign architects have tumbled in (laughter). I think our own men are best able to deal with our own buildings in our own climate (applause). I believe that the architectural details can be better worked cut by our own men than by men who know nothing of the conditions with which they have to deal. I shall not detain you longer, but will again thank you for the honor which you have done me, an honor which I owe to my connection with McGill University. I must also thank you on the part of the Council and members of the <assoc>Canadian Society of Engineers </assoc>for the hearty good wishes you have expressed towards that great corporation. I believe your Association will raise the status of the profession that is the way in our Society. We have a Dominion charter, and we are an open corporation ; but an open corporation will in the long run have a greater effect than a close corporation. The moral effect of an open corporation is excellent, and in England has proved sufficiently strong to retain for its members all great works of architecture. A close corporation has of course certain advantages also. If a Dominion Association could be formed, you could exclude and keep out all undesirable characters, and retain only such men as would be known, not only in this Dominion, but also over the whole continent."

The Chairman "Gentlemen, I will now propose a toast to the Press.'

The first reply was made by <person>Mr. Coté</person>, who urged united effort on the part of all for the welfare of Canada.

Mr. <person>Richard White</person>: "Mr President and gentlemen, I find it hard enough to say what I would like to say in English, and I cannot gratify your chairman by speaking in French. I am very pleased to be here this evening, and I am very pleased to find that you are inaugurating yourselves as a body Judging from the experience of other professions, it is necessary that you should have an association of this kind. We find merchants, professional men, bankers and other classes having associations for their own mutual advantage, and there is no reason why your body should not also organize. I hope you will have every success in the objects for which your society was started, the general advancement of your profession, and the erection of beautiful buildings that will be an honor to Canada. I wish you every success.''

Mr. <person>C. H. Mortimer</person>, of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, also responded

<person>Mr. Gendron </person>was called upon for a song, but having a slight cold, delivered a speech instead. He said "We have applied for a charter, and we have got it ; but it was first mutilated. We want a tariff, and a tariff which shall provide a lust recompense for an architect's services, the same as in the legal and other professions. We have now in the house a tariff which we consider fair, and which we expect to see passed. I must say something for the Mayor of Montreal. He is the friend of the architects. He rendered justice to us at Quebec."

The Mayor "Gentlemen, I am going to propose a toast that I know every one here will drink with the warmest enthusiasm imaginable. I am sure that every gentleman who is here will join with me in drinking the health of a gentleman who has so ably presided at your board, a gentleman who has been elected to fill the high and honorable position of President of your Association. I have known Mr. Roy for many a day. We have not been on the same side of politics, but we have always been friends. Mr. Roy is, like myself, a Montreal boy; he has worked himself up to the honorable position which he now holds. In choosing for your President men like <person>Mr. Roy</person>, who has worked honestly to do credit to himself and credit to his name as a Canadian, you do honor to yourselves." (Cheers.)

The toast was honored enthusiastically

The President "Gentlemen, the noble words which the Mayor has just spoken touch me most deeply. I do not say they are true, for I have learned the complimentary facts he has stated to-night for the first time. If I am this night President of the <assoc>Association of Architects of the Province of Quebec</assoc>, it is not by reason of having solicited the honour. I was greatly surprised myself when, after having threatened the Association to resign several times, I found that I had been elected President. But, in this world we are not made for ourselves alone. I said to myself, 'I am the victim of something or somebody,'

and when I found it was happiness to work for others, I fell into my role. Gentlemen, I thank you for the honor you have done me, and know that all I can do to make the Association a success, and all that we can do, will be cheerfully done. I have great confidence that we will attain our objects. There are ambitious men in our Association, but the greatest number are those who love the good of others. When the Association is recognized by the Legislature, the proprietors and capitalists will recognize them. The advantage of our Association is, that if all the details are well understood, the public will only employ architects recognized by the Association. It is their duty ; it is their interest. When our profession shall be held in proper respect by the public, you will see noble and good monuments erected That is what works for the good of the public. We are all certain to live. The architect lives in every country; but when he is known, he lives better, for he has less work to do and more time to study his lines. I thank you cordially, and I shall do all in my power to cause the Association to increase and prosper in every way. I think that in this year we will try and show some lines of progress, and we will try to act so that all the architects will join with us to second us in our efforts"

<person>Mr. Browne </person>: "Mr. Chairman, I have the honor to propose the health of a man respected by all, who has held high positions amongst us, who has done a great deal for the society; that is, our retiring President, <person>Mr. Berlinquet </person>" (Cheers.)

The toast was cordially honored.

Mr. Berlinquet: "Mr. President and gentlemen—In replying to the very flattering compliment which you have just paid me, I feel a certain sense of personal responsibility. The subject of Canadian architecture has already been treated at great length, and the progress of our Association has been the subject of much remark. I have great satisfaction, to which feeling is added a sentiment of vanity (fierté), or, better still, of pride Lorgueuil). Our association has already given evidences of virility and stability (applause). But yesterday we were scattered over the whole surface of the Province of Quebec, and we did not know each other. To-day we are united into a corporation, united by a community of interest, for the purpose of advancing the profession, and obtaining for it the recognition which it merits among the ranks of the liberal professions. The work we have undertaken is a work of civilization and patriotism. Particularly will we labor to diffuse knowledge that will cause the progress of the exact sciences. I hope that the diploma of the Association will one day be highly prized. There remains for me one more duty to fulfil, namely, to thank you personally for calling me to the Presidency of your Association. I hope you will continue to second the efforts of your promoters, and work in a fraternal spirit. Our efforts to become a corporation are meeting with their recompense. It is that spirit of devotion which has made the stability and fortunes of all institutions" (applause.)

<person>Mr. Dunlop</person>. "Mr. President, I beg to propose a toast to "The Quebec members of this Association." I think that they are deserving of a great deal of thanks for coming here, and the only trouble is, we do not ask them to come here often enough. I know, for my part, that when we go to Quebec we are treated right royally, and we are glad to have an occasional opportunity of returning the compliment."

The toast was drunk heartily.

Mr Baillairgé : "Mi. President and gentlemen, I thank you for the way in which you have honored the toast. I am sorry we are unable to be here in greater numbers, but the members here will express their appreciation of the way they have been treated. I am not accustomed to addressing audiences of this kind, but will call upon <person>Mr. Peachy</person>, who has been a city councillor, and is therefore an experienced orator."

Mr. Peachy : "Mr. Chairman and gentlemen—My honorable friend has paid me a compliment which I do not deserve. In the city of Quebec I worked for the city and I did my best; but I never shone as an orator, and after the elegant speeches I have heard this evening, I am very diffident about addressing you. I am charmed at having come here, not only with the number of the members, but with the friendly spirits of which the society is composed. In the city of Montreal we observe that architecture has made immense strides ; we see the architects of Montreal occupying the highest positions ; the buildings of Montreal are equal to any in the United States. We, in Quebec, have not the same resources that Montreal has ; but, all the same, we shall follow in the right track, and do all we can for the instruction and education of our young architects."

The last toast, "The Retiring Officers," was responded to by <person>Mr. Doran </person>in the following terms

"Mr. Chairman and gentlemen—I may take it for granted that in toasting the retiring officers, you desire thereby to express your approval of the greater number of their actions, and in the efforts they put forth for the advancement of an Association that was only in its infancy. It has, however, now attained a certain amount of growth, and the problem is, how to increase that growth and how to nurse the plant so as to make it a plant worthy of the soil. It is true that we have not accomplished everything we desired, particularly with reference to the act of incorporation sought for from the Legislature. We received something, but not all we asked for The Quebec Legislature followed the bad example of the Ontario Legislature by mutilating the act by giving powers to 'registered architects,'

