	<doctype type="text">110	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	November, 1892



<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION

FOR A CITY HOUSE.

" author="">"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION

FOR A CITY HOUSE.

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invites competitive designs for a city dwelling, to cost $15,000, and to be erected on a lot 30 x 125 feet. The lot will face the narrow way, south, the long way, east. The main west wall of the building must stand on the party line between the lots, and the main east wall must come upon the street line. There is to be no enclosed area for lighting.

The building is to contain three clear stories above ground, to be constructed of stone, or of stone and brick, with sloping or flat roof. No overhanging tile or shingle work will be allowed.

The entrance may be on either front, at the option of the designer.

The number and location of rooms and the purposes which they are to serve is left to the judgment of the designer.

Competitors will be required to furnish plans of basement and three upper stories, and elevations of south and east front. Perspectives may he submitted at the option of the competitors. Floor levels must be marked on tee side of the elevations.

This competition is restricted to architectural students and draughtsrnen in Canada.

Drawings must be made on sheets of heavy white paper or bristol board, 14 x 20 inches in size, and must be drawn sufficiently coarse to allow of their being reduced to one-half the above size. Drawings must he made in firm, strong lines, with pen and black ink. No color or brush work will be allowed. Each drawing must he marked with the nom de plume of its author, and the author's name, nom de plume and full address, enclosed in a sealed envelope, must accompany each drawing sent in.

Drawings must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, on or before the 4th of January, 1893. The right is reserved of publishing any drawing sent in. Drawings will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

The first premium will be $15.00, and the second, $10.

The merits of the designs will be decided by a committee composed of three members of the Ontario Association of Architects, and their decision will be final.



<article title=" COMPETITION FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS AT VICTORIA. B. C." author="">COMPETITION FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS AT VICTORIA. B. C.

The decision in the preliminary competition has just been announced. Out of sixty designs submitted the five exhibiting most merit are declared to be those by the following architects

3.	<person>Francis Brown</person>, Toronto ; <person>Thomas C. Sorby</person>, Victoria <person>F. NI. Gardner</person>, Chicago <person>W. J. Rattenbury</person>, Vancouver ; <person>J. M. Connor, </person>Boston, <person>W. H. Skillings</person>, Seattle, the last named two having joined on one design. We congratulate the Canadian architects upon the excellent showing they have made in this competition, and especially Mr. Brown, who has but recently commenced practice. it is to be hoped that a Canadian architect may succeed in winning first place in the final competition.





<article title=" THE ERECTION OF SCAFFOLDS " author="">THE ERECTION OF SCAFFOLDS.

We reprint below the by-law recently passed by the City Council of Toronto governing the erection of scaffolds:

All scaffoldings used by bricklayers or other builders in the erection, repairing, altering or improving of buildings, chimneys or other structures, shall be built and constructed as follows

BUILDERS' SCAFFOLD.



Standards or uprights to be of live. sound Norway pine, tamarac or spruce tamarac preferred). Distance between each standard eight or ten feet, and butts or said standard placed in the ground to the depth of not less than two feet six inches, and when placed upon stone flagging or granolithic sidewalk, to be put in good sound cement or other barrel, or a box two feet square by two feet six inches high, and filled with sand or other suitable material. The standards to be not less than four and half inches at butt, and two and a half inches at the top diameter, and in a very high scaffold, to be increased in size.

Ledgers same material as standards, not less than three inches diameter at small end, and no ledger to be taken off the standards that would allow a greater distance from the ground than ten feet. Putlogs to be of ironwood, white oak, or other suitable material, the said putlogs to be butted, flattened or squared at the end which enters the wall, and not to be removed according as the scaffold rises. One course of planking, the entire length of scaffold, must remain on each tier of the said putlogs. The putlogs not to bc less than three inches diameter clear of hark. Three putlogs to be placed under planks twelve feet in length, that is to say, one putlog at each

end and one in the centre. (When planks sixteen feet long are used five putlogs shall be used.) Planks to be two inches in thickness, and of sound pine, spruce or hemlock, ten or twelve inches in width.

Scaffolds to be stayed from ledgers on to the joists through the openings, and in the absence of openings, to be stayed by other sufficient means.

Racking braces to consist of poles and tied with ropes. Ropes not to be less than sixteen feet in length, and five-eighths of an inch thick, except in case of small scaffolds, when rope one half inch thick may be used.

Ladders in all cases to reach five feet above the landing stage, so that plenty of hold will be afforded men when landing off.

When bricks are laid from the inside of fire-proof buildings, there shall be a temporary floor of two-inch plank laid on the girders or temporary joists all around the inside of walls and not less than six feet wide, and when bricks are laid from the inside of buildings not fire proof, which have joists not over fourteen inches apart, then the temporary floor may be of one-inch boards six feet wide and placed all around the building.

In all cases where the inside scaffolding is built from the foundation the same as the outside scaffolding, the temporary floors above mentioned shall not be required.

When trestles are used, the height to be from four to six feet and to be made substantial, of good material, and when a scaffold is formed by putting trestles one upon another it shall not he over eighteen feet in height, that is to say, not more than three trestles shall be used of the height of six feet each.

Where required all overhead protections to be placed fully under scaffolds. When building out to the street line, boards or planks to be placed where the workmen pass under.

All scaffolding used by carpenters, in the erection, repairing, altering or improving of buildings, chimneys or other structures, shall be built and constructed as follows

CARPENTERS' SCAFFOLDING.



All uprights of said scaffolding to be 4 X 4, sound and free from objectionable knots, the brackets nailed to them and to the building, and to be one inch in thickness and not less than ten inches wide, properly nailed to building and upright and when there is no opening to nail said bracket, then a piece one inch thick and six inches wide to be notched to secure the bracket, and nailed solid to the wall and to the upright. The boards laid on this to walk on to be two-inch plank, sound and free from knots, or else two one-inch boards, laid one on top of the other.

When bracket scaffold is put up, the leg to be sound and not less than 2 x 6 on edge, set at the proper angle to prevent the bracket from tipping from the wall.

When scaffold projects from windows, the bracket to be one inch thick by not less than ten inches wide and six inches deep, both brace and bracket well nailed to window, and the brace well nailed to bracket also.

The City Commissioner shall forthwith after he has approved of the plans of buildings proposed to be erected, as required by Section 32 of By-law 2468, see that the scaffolding used in the construction of such building shall conform with the foregoing provisions of this By-law, and prosecute all persons who may proceed with the erection of buildings using scaffolding which is not constructed in accordance with this By-law, an(I in the event of the City Commissioner finding a scaffold, which in his estimation is unsafe, and after due notice to the contractor, the same is not made satisfactory, the said Commissioner may take such proceedings against him as he has power under this or any other By-law.

Any person convicted of a breach of any of the provisions of this By-law shall forfeit and pay, at the discretion of the convicting magistrate, a penalty not exceeding the sum of fifty dollars for each offence, exclusive of costs.





<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL. 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT and BUILDER).



The Building Inspector wishes to secure the amendment of the by-law governing the erection of fire escapes, so as to bring the owners of large boarding houses under its provisions.

It is understood to be the intention of the newly appointed Sanitary Engineer to endeavor to secure the adoption by the Council of a by-law to provide for the regulation of plumbers and plumbing.

The death of Mr. <person>George H. Mount</person>, who for nine years filled the position of assistant to <person>Mr. Lacroix</person>, the City Building Inspector, took place at St. Hyacinthe last month.

The sum of $20,000 has been subscribed for the erection of a monument to the late <person>Sir John A. Macdonald.</person> The committee, representing the citizens, which has in hand the erection of the monument, will proceed at once to collect the subscriptions. A number of sculptors, foreign and Canadian, have been asked to submit designs.

Mr. <person>Douglas Sladen </person>gives the following description of the old cathedral of <building>Notre Dame at Montreal</building>, in a letter to the New York Sun reporting the doings of the <person>Duc d'Orleans </person>and the <person>Compte de Paris </person>on the occasion of their visit to the city. In America Montreal is the City of Churches, and the finest of them all is Notre Dome, rebuilt in 1824 on the site of the church or 1672, with towers 227 feet high, and a good deal of the majestic appearance of <building>St. Sulspice, of Paris</building>, The Seigneurs of the island of Montreal are the Fathers of St. Sulspice. Inside, no church on this continent so recalls the carving and color and richness of mediaeval Catholic churches, like the roof of <building>Ely Cathedral</building>, or the wood screens of Totnes and Dartmouth. There are many suggestions of Dartmouth in the interior. One must examine it in a subdued light, or not too closely, for its ornamentation bears the same relation to the solid richness of rnediaeval work as Japanese goods

