	<doctype type="text">122	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	December, 1892



<article title="Odds and Ends" author="">ODDS AND ENDS.

IN erecting office buildings and other similar large structures the most difficult problem in general is that of adequate light, without considerable sacrifice of space. By using here and there thick pieces of glass, set in light iron frames, for floors, some of the difficulty is removed, but there are always some rooms that depend upon reflected light. The office room in which this item is written has large windows, but blank walls only a few feet from them so that very little light comes into the room direct from the sky. It was originally intended to cover the walls referred to with white glazed tiles, but this was not done' because of the high cost. It does not seem to have struck the architect or owner that almost the same result might be obtained by giving the walls a liberal coat of whitewash about once a year. The expense would be comparatively small while the reflection of light from the white surface almost equal to that obtained from glazed tiles. Another means for reflecting light in dark rooms that is extensively used in office buildings in England is the mirror reflector. This consists of a mirror plate, finely corrugated on the surface and set in a strong wooden frame. It is hung on the outside of the window, the top being inclined at a proper angle to throw light into the room. As a rule the reflector is supported at the bottom on pivots, held in place by means of iron brackets secured to the window frame, while the top is supported by iron chains. The surface of the plate being corrugated, the light thrown into the room is well diffused. The writer has seen cases repeatedly where rooms in which it was necessary to burn gas all day were rendered light enough for all office purposes by means of these reflectors placed at each window, the reflectors being assisted by the walls and ceilings of the room, which were papered with very light satin wall paper.

* *

*

To properly specify for the finish of hard-wood floors sometimes puzzles architects. The writer has seen several coats of raw linseed oil called for, when to use such would produce very unsatisfactory surfaces. One of the best ways to finish floors of this kind is to first give a coat of hot linseed oil, liberally mixed with dryer, then rub in paste filler and clean off in the usual way, taking care to leave the surface free from excess filler as far as possible. Now apply a coat of light shellac, sandpaper lightly all over, and putty up the holes and detects with a putty carefully colored to match the wood then apply two or even three more coats of shellac and lightly sand paper between each, and finish by rubbing to a (lull polish with crude oil and powdered pumice stone. An oak floor finished in this way will last longer than a finish by any other method, and very much longer than when finished with wax. Some painters would be inclined to omit the hot oil before applying the paste filler, but it pays well to use it, as it forms an excellent foundation and gives a durability to the floor as a whole.

	*	*

*

Canada is fortunate in having upon its statute books a law regulating the sale of white lead which practically insures that pure lead shall be used when specified. The fact should not be lost sight of, however, that something more than purity is required in white lead whiteness and fineness are very important qualities, and it is well known that there is almost as much difference between the various brands of pure lead as there is between chalk and cheese. The color of white lead may readily be tested by placing different samples side by side, when the whitest sample will be readily distinguished. It is not a bad plan to have a sample of zinc also the zinc being a much purer white than even the whitest white lead ordinarily sold, gives a sort of standard and indicates at a glance how yellow the commercial white lead is. To test the fineness of white lead is not a difficult matter Thin it with turpentine and spread on glass, brushing out as smoothly as possible, using a separate sheet of glass for each sample, and taking care to thin equally. This can be done by weighing the sample of lead and measuring the quantity of turpentine used in each case. When the glass is painted and is quite dry a comparison between the samples will show the relative fineness at a glance, while f the finger be drawn across the surface, the difference in fineness will be further perceptible. This glass test will tell something about the whiteness also.

There are few things more annoying in connection with store fronts than the condensation of moisture on the glass that so frequently takes place. Not, only does the water run down and spoil the goods placed in the window, but it obscures the view and renders the window to all intents and purposes useless. There have been various means for curing the trouble patented, but none of them has met with very great success. No store front should be built without an open grating at the top to permit of a free ventilation, when this is provided there will not, as a rule, be much accumulated moisture. In case of existing store fronts where it is desired to provide means for ventilation, a piece of glass should be cut away and a r evolving brass ventilator inserted, or a strip of glass may be cut away from the top of the window and two or three strips of glass held at the ends in a metal frame and arranged to lap may be inserted so as to form a glass shutter that can be open or shut at will.



<article title="Escape from Buildings in case of Fire" author="Baillairge, Charles">ESCAPE FROM BUILDINGS IN CASE OF FIRE.*

BY <person>CHARLES BAILLAIRGE</person>.

Having been invited by your Secretary, <person>Mr. Hutchison</person>, to read a paper on some subject connected with the profession, I do not think I can hit on one more utilitarian and really important than that of Evasion in Case of

Fire.

For the last 30 or 40 years we have been endeavoring to erect 'fire proof" structures, and great strides have been made towards the solution of the problem. Repeatedly has it been asserted that such and such a building was or might be considered absolutely tire-proof; and as often has each and everyone of them come to grief, generally with much loss of life, whenever taken in hand by the devouring element. As recently as last year did I see a list of some 28 theatres and places of amusement destroyed by fire in different parts of the world in a single month; and one can hardly, on any day of the year. take up a newspaper without the recital of some frightful accident, some holocaust due to the destruction by fire of a manufactory, a college or a convent, theatre, hotel, asylum and the like.

The motto used to be, All brick and iron," or Nothing but brick and iron, but that error has been exploded by the repeated failure of structures so built, where it is found that cast iron columns snap like glass when, after becoming heated by the combustion of the furniture and stores within the building, a jet or water from a fire engine happens to strike them while wrought iron columns, joists and girders also fail, by warping and distortion and it is now incontestably admitted on all hands that cast and wrought iron columns, beams, girders, etc.. can only be used and relied on to stand

in case of fire w here they are enclosed in brickwork, or thoroughly enveloped on every side with terra cotta or some other refractory substance of the kind and hence the philosophy nowadays of erecting buildings composed of a skeleton frame work or wrought iron or steel encased in brick work

the iron affording the stability required while the brick work forms the protection against destruction by fire.

It may be considered practically impossible to render buildings of all kinds absolutely fire-proof, or to the extent of preventing at least their partial destruction. We cannot, for the sake of an eventuality which may never occur, render ourselves uncomfortable and miserable for a whole lifetime by resigning ourselves to tread on cold stone, cement, tile or other forms of incombustible flooring We cannot make up our minds to the lifelong handling of cold and heavy iron sashes. shutters, blinds and doors. Floors in our dwelling houses and our schools, and in the bedrooms of hotels. etc., must still for health and comfort continue to be made of wood. You cannot have your little ones trot around in their bare feet even on so cold a floor as oak, merely for the sake of its slow burning qualities. And, independently of the effort and fatigue of handling iron doors and casements, look at the cost of them as compared with wood the first cost and then the subsequent one of repairs for buildings must in future settle and subside unequally, and what will cost you a cent to chip and shave a wooden sash or door to make it fit, would cost a dollar if it were

to say nothing of the fact that the iron sash, the folding casement more especially, could hardly be made so close a fit against the entrance of cold air, and therefore, not so comfortable.

The treads of stairs. f not the carriages, must in dwelling and tenement houses and whenever carpets cannot be afforded, continue to be made of some such non-conducting soft wood as pine or hemlock, spruce or balsam, where you can use your bare feet without the danger of taking cold as when walking over oil cloth. Our tables, desks and chairs must continue to be made of wood, for who can submit to constantly touch or come in contact with metallic surfaces without untold annoyance, discomfort and ill humor. And so must our couches, our sideboards or buffets and our bedsteads be made or wood, were it only for the fact that a wooden bedstead can be bought for $2.00, while an iron one costs five times the amount. Nor would any adequate advantage be obtained in the use of iron chairs, if they could be made as cheap as wood; for, as no one could use such, so to say, freezing or heat abstracting seats, they must be suitably upholstered or cushioned. So would couches have to be if they also were of metal.

Now, since all buildings used for residential purposes, as dwelling and tenement houses, convents, schools and colleges, hotels and places of public resort and amusement must, therefore. have wooden floors, wooden



Paper read at the Third Annual Convention of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>.

