

<doctype type="text"><article title="The Toronto Technical School" author="">THE TORONTO TECHNICAL SCHOOL.

Following is an abstract of the address delivered by Mr. <person>John A. Duff</person>, Principal of the Toronto Technical School at the opening of the second term on Oct. 3rd. —It has been announced that am to speak to-night on T he Benefit of

Technical Knowledge in Mechanical and Industrial Pursuits It would probably he inferred that I would endeavor to enumerate the advantages and advocate the claims of Technical Education in general, but I do not think that any one will be disappointed at hearing that such is not my intention, for I feel sore that everyone will be more interested in hearing what facilities for such education are provided by the Toronto Technical School, and by explaining the scope and bearing of the subjects taught I think I can more effectively than in any other way make clear to you the advantages to be derived therefrom.

The history of the Toronto Technical School is brief. In December of last year the City Council passed a by-law, appointing a Board of Management and giving them an appropriation of $6,000 and the free use of St. Lawrence Hall The Board at once began the work of organization; teachers were appointed, and the courses of study decided upon, and St Lawrence Hall having been found unsuitable, this building was secured and the necessary alterations made with such expedition, that by the first of February the work of the session was well commenced. The attendance from the first was large, and was well maintained throughout the term, and very satisfactory progress was made.

Such has been the past. There is every reason to hope that the coming year will be still more successful and that the Toronto Technical School will rapidly become a great power for the dissemination of scientific knowledge and habits of correct thought With additional teaching power we have been able to make the course of study more comprehensive. Trigonometry will be taught twice a week instead of once, which was all the time we were able to devote to it last year, and, if necessary, the classes in Arithmetic and Measuration will he sub-divided. Arrangements have been made for three classes per week in Chemistry and Physics, which will enable us to provide a tolerably complete course on electricity—that mysterious power which seems destined to usher in a new era of civilization, There is thus provided for the current year the following distinct courses of study Mathematics, including Arithmetic, Mensuration, Algebra, Euclid, Trigonometry, Practical Geometry, Descriptive Geometry, Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, Mechanics, including Statics, Kinem sties and Dynamics, Chemistry and Physics, including Hydrostatics, Heat. Sound, Light and Electricity

Each student is allowed to select his own studies subject only to the requirements of the time table. With only ten teaching hours in the week it is impossible to make provision for all the classes without having two different subjects occur at the same time, and thus to some extent the freedom of choice in the selection of studies is curtailed. The time table has, however, been carefully arranged, so that the least possible inconvenience will be felt from this source, For example, if a student has so far forgotten his Arithmetic that it would be necessary for hint to take lessons in that subject, he would not be able, until he has become familiar with Arithmetical operations, to derive much benefit from the lessons in Mechanics. We have therefore put Arithmetic and Mechanics down for the same hour, and the students who find it necessary to review their Arithmetic and who wish to study Mechanics, will find is not a hardship but very much to their advantage, to take Arithmetic during the present session and defer the Mechanics for another year. As the success of the student and therefore of the school depends largely on the proper selection of the course of study, let me briefly describe the different subjects taught, and incidentally nicetion some of the advantages derived from each

Let us begin with Mathematics, the interpreter and herald of scientific knowledge, and without which little teal progress can be made Mathematics is one of the most potent instruments of scientific investigation, besides being the only foundation upon which exact scientific knowledge can be built In Science and Engineering, theories are of little value unless they are exact and definite, and we cannot have this exactness without Mathematics. A knowledge of Mathematics is not necessary in order to understand the general laws of nature, but it is necessary in order to state those laws with exactness or make any practical application of them. Anyone can understand that waiver will flow through pipes, but no one can calculate the quantity which will flow through a given pipe in a given time without a knowledge of Mathematics. I do not mean to say that Mathematics must he pursued to its highest developments, but it is necessary to have at least a good working knowledge of Arithmetic. Algebra and Geometry.

The course or Arithmetic—the corner stone of Mathematics—will comprise instruction in numeration and notation, the operations of addition, subtraction. multiplication and division, the use of fractions and decimals, ratio and proportion, the method of extracting square root and the theory of logarithms-in short a complete course in Pure Arithmetic, including all the arithmetical operations which are used in the other branches of Mathematics and Science, but excluding Commercial Arithmetic, which is the application of the forgoing rules to the computation of interest, discount, stocks, annuities, &c., and which finds its proper place in the curriculum of a Business College.

Along with Arithmetic are taught the rules of Mensuration, by means of which the areas of surfaces and the volumes of solids may be calculated and compared. A knowledge of these rules may be required by any man at any time or place.

In Algebra the work will be the same as that which is ordinarily taught in the High Schools of Ontario, which is all that is usually required in pure or applied science. I will not occupy your time with a more particular enumeration, hut I wish to impress noon all intending students the vital importance of Algebra in chemistry and physics In these sciences formulae occur which can only be properly expressed by algebraic symbols, and the only practical method of solving problems or determining an unknown quantity, is by means of algebraic equations. But if Algebra is of so great importance in Chemistry and Physics, it is absolutely indispensable to the proper study of Natural Philosophy or Mechanics Very few calculations involving force or motion can be made without its aid, and without Algebra a knowledge of Mechanics must always prove to he incomplete and unproductive What has been sad of Algebra is true to almost as great a degree of Trigonometry and Euclid's elements of Geometry. Euclid has the further advantage of being one of the most perfect systems of logic that has ever been constructed, and no one can master Euclid without becoming a logician.

Let me here remark that the aim of higher education ought not to he so much to fill the student with dry facts, as to teach him how to use what knowledge he already possesses—in other words to teach him how to think properly and to act accordingly. And one of the greatest works that a Technical School can do is to teach mechanics the art of thinking To do this there is no study so efficacious as Mathematics, for there is no other branch of knowledge so exact and definite, and there is no other in which the reason alone is employed.

In Chemistry, it is proposed to teach the mode of occurrence, the nature, and methods of preparation of the different elements and compounds which are of importance in everyday life, special attention being given to those substances and processes which are of technical value, such as electrolysis, coal, and the manufacture of coal gas, iron and steel, mortars and cements.

Lying in the border land between Chemistry and Physics. is the study of the constitution and properties of matter —stew lectures will be devoted to this very interesting subject.

Under Hydrostatics will be taught the general character and properties of liquids, and the theory of the common hydrostatic and hydraulic instruments, such as the hydrostatic balance, hydraulic press, spirit level, hydrometers, electrometers. etc. Along with hydrostatics. though scarcely belonging to it, conic the physical properties of gases and the atmosphere, the theory of the barometers, pumps balloons and siphons.

The course on Heat will embrace the nature, sources, transmission and general effects of heat the theory and construction of thermometers, the determination of the melting and boiling points, freezing mixtures, distillation and evaporation, and the theory of steam engines

Lectures will be given on the elementary theory of Sound surf Light in, which the theory and construction of optical and musical instruments will be described

Electricity will be taught in two divisions. The relation of Chemistry to electricity, and the theory and construction of electric batteries, will be described in connection with the course on Chemistry. In connection with Physics, there will be a on magnetism and current electricity, the theory and construction of the dynamo, telephone and telegraph, and the applications of electricity in daily life.

in Chemistry and Physics the lectures will be illustrated by experiment as fir as our apparatus will permit We hope that very soon, though perhaps not during the present year, there will he a laboratory in connection with the school in which practical work in Chemistry and Physics may be done by advanced students The advantages to be derived therefrom must be apparent to all, and let us therefore hope that it will soon be an accomplished fact. There will be a course on Practical Geometry, which is intended to give facility in the use of drawing instruments and the construction of geometrical figures. It will be found very useful as an introduction to the course on Descriptive Geometry or the theory of projection. That on Descriptive Geometry will comprise the representation of objects by means of a plan and elevation, and problems leading up to and solved thereby, such as the determination of the form of the intersection of two cylinders or cylinder and a cone, together with instruction in oblique and perspective projection. This course which involves the theory of drafting, is of great utility not only to those who are trying to perfect themselves as mechanical or architectural draftsmen, but to sheet metal workers and any whose occupation requires them to have some knowledge of working drawings, as pattern makers, boiler makers, machinists, etc. In connection with the Descriptive Geometry, practical instruction will be given in the drafting room in instrumental drawing, lettering, etc , for which purpose copies and models of machine and building construction will be available T his instruction will be given to the students individually and for this purpose the drafting room will he open, and an instructor will be present during every teaching hour of the school A student who takes this course of practical work in the drafting room should be able by the end of the year to read a  drawing without any difficulty, and also to make a fairly good original drawing, and at the end of two years he should be a fairly good draftsman.

The course on Mechanics will embrace she theory of vectors, the representation, measurements and laws of forces and motions, the theory of equilibrium, theory of the lever, pulley, and other simple mechanical powers, the calculation of stresses, theory of the simple beam, the transmission of force and motion, friction, work, energy, power, the efficiency of machines and the elements of machine design I hope that this brief outline of the courses of instruction will enable intending students to choose wisely the subjects which they most require. But should there be any who are still unable to make a choice, the teachers will be glad to give whatever further information may he required Most students will find that they will he unable to pursue more than two or three courses of study during the year. I would advise those who thus find it necessary to defer some of their studies, to take their Mathematics first for the reason which I have already given, that a knowledge of Mathematics is essential to a proper study of the other subjects From what I have said or from a reference to the prospectus it might be inferred that we expected to complete all our courses of study in one year, but such ma not the ease In Algebra, Euclid, Descriptive Geometry, and perhaps some of the other subjects, two years will be required to complete the course, and it is expected that the advanced classes in these subjects will be formed next October. And, without interfering with the perfect freedom of choice now enjoyed by student, wishing to pursue a special line of study, it ma hoped that we will then he able so announce the programme for a regular course embracing two or three yeats. The experience of the past winter has convinced mite that in Toronto the demand for technical education is urgent, but the citizens may rest assured that on the part of the Board of Management or the teaching staff of the Technical School no effort will be wanting to supply that demand,





<article title="Legal Decisions" author="">LEGAL DECISIONS.

In the case of Lane vs. The <assoc>Dungannon Agricultural Driving Park Associations</assoc>, recently decided by the Court of Queen's Bench, Toronto, the contractor for the erection of a building for the defendants during its progress gave to various persons orders upon the defendants for sums due them by him, in the following form: "Dungannon Sept. 12, 1890. To the directors of the Dungannon Driving Park Associations. Please pay to D. M. the sum of $——-, and oblige (signed) T F. H., contractor." The court held that these orders were not in themselves good equitable assignments of portions of the fund in the bands of the defendants. The evidence, however, showed that there was only one fund out of which the directors could be expected to pay the orders ; that the nature of that fond and its origin were well known to all the patties, that when the contractor promised the persons with whom he dealt orders upon the directors, he meant to give, and these persons expected in get orders which were to be paid out of the contract price, and that the directors understood the orders as intended to deal with portions of the contract price, and to be payable only out of that particular fund, It was held that the court should look to the real intention of all the parties to the transaction, and give effect to it by declaring that the contractor did make an equitable assignment to each of the order holders of a portion of the fund.

