<doctype type="text">November, 1892 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



prepared for Western markets bear to the genuine old Japanese, made for some great Daimo, and sold and resold, until they arrive at the stall of the curio seller. The galleries have very handsome wooden arcading, and there is a great deal of carving about the reredos and the pulpit and elsewhere, but the effect is the effect of things that would be poor without paint—not of painted oak. Though it will not bear critical examination from an eye accustomed to the work done when the monks were their own masons and carpenters. the whole effect is rich and singularly harmonious and spirited. This great church will seat from ten to fifteen thousand people.

A commission composed of Mr. <person>H. Wallis</person>, Mechanical Superintendent of the G. T. Railway, <person>Mr. Howden</person>, Government Inspector of Dredging, and a third party yet to be named, has been appointed to inspect and report on the work done in Montreal harbor during the past year.





<article title="Correspondence - Hamilton" author="">HAMILTON 

	(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

As might be expected there is not very much work going on just now, but for this season of the year the outlook is not bad.



Architect <person>Clohecy</person> is making alterations to the <building>Loretto Convent Hamilton</building>, which will cost about $10,000.



Extensive alterations will be made to <building>Christ Church Cathedral Sunday School  Hamilton</building>by Architect <person>Mills</person> who has just completed the <building>Zion Tabernacle Sunday School Hamilton</building>.



A residence to cost about $10,000 is to be erected by Architect Balfour on James street south for Mr. <person>C. M. Counsell.

</person>

Messrs. <firm>Lawry & Son </firm>are making important alterations and additions to their pork factory on Wentworth street under the direction of Architect <person>Balfour</person>.



A large addition will be made to the <building>Hamilton Pottery </building>by Architect <person>Mills</person>.



Architect Balfour is making additions to <building>Gomph's brewery  Hamilton</building>and also to the <building>Grant-Lottridge brewery Hamilton

</building>

Architect <person>Stewart</person> is putting up a residence on Hughson street.



A hotel is being erected on top of the Mountain, in the east end, where it is intended to construct another incline railway.



The intersection of John and King streets has been selected as the site of the proposed monument to the late Sir <person>John A. Macdonald</person>. The base is now in course of erection. The statue itself is expected to arrive shortly from England.



Carving in this city seems to receive very little attention front the architects, and the result is in the majority of cases that the building would look better if it were left off on the recently completed Rink of Hamilton, however, the carving is very successful it is well designed and well executed on the City Hall the execution of the carving is good, generally speaking, but in some places the design is not at all up to the standard one of the panels on the main tower is particularly had. On the <building>Public Library Hamilton</building>the carving is entirely devoid of artistic merit, and it seems a pity that on a building of this character such should I e the case. On the Canada Life building the carving is very good, and not truly improves the building, but is a credit both to the architect and sculptor.



A joke is going the rounds at the expense of the watchful guardians of the peace in Hamilton. A well known plumber and two of his assistants found it necessary to work all night in repairing some pipes in a store, They were discovered by the police, who mistaking them for burglars, quietly surrounded the house and had a patrol wagon in waiting to receive them. When their identity became known, the representatives of law and order retired with as much dignity as the circumstances would permit.





<article title="the Architect as a business man and artist" author="Rhino, J.R.">THE ARCHITECT AS A BUSINESS MAN AND ARTIST.

BY <person>J. R. RHINO</person>.



The architect must be, first, a business man, second, practical, and third, artistic. lt is of the last I have most to say.

The first is necessary to the drawing up of agreements, and conducting and negotiating for the carrying out of work, so that extras or omissions, should any occur, may be settled in a fair and just manner, and so that the employer may be protected from any loss by the failure of the builder to fulfil his contract. The want or lack of a business way of settling work, drawing up agreements and specifications, or badly drawn and insufficiently illustrated plans, are primary causes of misunderstanding and disagreement, lead to litigation, entailing serious loss of time and giving much worry and trouble—and worry will kill a man in half the time that hard work will— and making one ask the question: Is life worth living? I would certainly answer, "Not the life of an unbusiness like architect. Business capacity will come by experience, though sometimes dearly and bitterly bought, and wise is the man who takes his mistakes in a right spirit and avoids the sunken rocks and treacherous under currents which he will surely meet, as every one of us here has no doubt done. who steers his business affairs by the light of his past experience, and guided by common sense, carefully avoids past mistakes and blunders.

There is, as you all of course well know, great differences in clients with some clients from the first moment you put pencil to paper to the last stroke of the pen as you sign your name to the cheque in payment of your services, it has been a series of successes; everything you do is appreciated; this gives zest and pleasure to your work; you feel inspired as you design; you strike out good and original ideas; your suggestions are approved of and carried out. With a client of this kind you invariably get the pick of the contractors (a good contractor is more than half the battle) to carry out the work well and quickly, and when you are finally and promptly paid you sign your name to your cheque with an extra flourish and dash, and feel that though easily earned, you gave good value for your money.

But the other kind of client, who first bargains what you are to he paid and who thinks your charges exorbitant, you never seem to be able to please. After making innumerable drawings, your plait is at last decided on; you call for tenders which of course come to far too much motley; the plans are reduced and invariably spoiled, the work is cut clown to the cheapest kind, the cheapest and nastiest contractors are given the work. The work goes on; your amiable client thinks it is not good enough and blames you; he begins to alter and add here and there, wants better inside finishing. better locks, better everything, till the bill of extras amounts to almost as much as the whole contract price; your client refuses point blank to pay, and if the poor unfortunate architect has not got every order for extra work in writing, he gets up one fire morning and finds that lie has to attend that abomination of abominations, a court of law, to be questioned and cross-questioned by an "imp' of a lawyer, and is ready in deck ire to himself as he



Paper read at the Third Annual Convention of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>.

wearily drags his limbs homeward, Life is certainly not worth living.

These are the two extremes of the business part of the profession, and let us all pray that we may never meet the kind of client last described.

Next comes the practical part of the profession. The architect must know and use the most suitable material for the many different parts of his building, and proportion them to withstand the strains that will come upon them, in the strongest, most enduring and economical manner. This knowledge can to a certain extent be acquired by study alone and by being taught by another, but this is not sufficient, you must have practical experience, that is, the actual seeing of the work as it is carried out. When you make a mistake yourself or the builder makes a mistake, for the best of us are not infallible, then your inventive faculty in construction comes into play, and you are as it were put on your mettle and in rectifying your mistake you learn something which you did not know before and perhaps would never have learnt, unless you had blundered. Experience this gained is one of the richest jewels in the architects practice ; it can only be obtained by experience, and wise is the man who humbly and thankfully stores this precious knowledge and who is able to bring it forth and apply his mayhap dearly bought, but rich experience, when occasion demands, and thereby successfully overcomes the difficulties in his way. But foolish is the man who does not profit by his experience. The pitfalls in his way are many, but he often discovers his calamities when they are brought about by his own pig-headed stupidity

Now we come to the third, and to the architect the indispensable quality viz., the Artistic—it is this quality which distinguishes the architect from the civil engineer, or mere builder. It is not bound by any rules that can be acquired and retained by memory ready to be fired off when occasion requires. One must have the artistic quality or he cannot design, it is like music, one must have an ear before he can distinguish one melody front another.

This artistic feeling is stronger and keener in some than in others; we cannot all be geniuses, but that should be no hindrance to our designing in good caste. We cannot all be Mozarts or Beethovens, but that is no reason why we should not enjoy the simplest melodies, or join in singing a chorus, or warble a song, though perhaps some of use trying to warble might not add to what you would call ' the concord of sweet sounds." 

In short, one having an ear for music, it is possible to be trained to be a musician in the same way one having natural taste can be trained to design in good taste, by being told what is good and what is bad, and thus to be enabled himself to discriminate between good and bad, to have pointed out the difference between ornamental construction and constructed ornament; on this last hinges the whole question of good and bail architecture—one must construct first and then ornament the construction. One sees this ornamental construction brought to the highest point of beauty in the architecture of the middle ages, but when construction became the main object and the architect tried to see with what little support he could erect his buildings, they began to have an attenuated appearance, and though strong enough as time has proved, these buildings can never satisfy the artistic feelings within us; they look like what my countrymen would call "no very carny." and you feel a certain relief when you get a good distance away front them Some of the principal dualities of good design are: the building must be strong and look strong, and to look strong, it must have strength and more than enough to set the mind at rest and satisfy you that it is, as the Yankees would say, " there to stay.

I do not mean to say that the stronger you make your building look the more satisfactory the effect. One is just as liable to err on the side of heaviness and clumsiness as attenuation and meagreness, but there is a just proportion between height and breadth and depth which the trained eve alone can discriminate and which never errs on the side of weakness.

To make a thorough good design one must not draw a pretty picture only and go no further, but must draw every particle of detail full size ; the detail of a building goes more to show the well trained architect than the whole design ; the general design may be good, and the detail being what you would call unarchitectural, it condemns the whole building; on the oilier hand the design may be meagre and the detail good, and thereby it retrieves the whole building and brings it into the sphere of good design.

ibis study of detail is one of the most interesting and absorbing in the profession of an architect, and the correct rendering of detail goes more to show the educated architect than any other point in a building

the best way to study detail and design is front the actual building, not only to stand and look am it, but in measure and draw it, transfer it to your sketch book and make it your own, and you will discover us you draw fresh beauties which you did not before observe. I do not mean the buildings on this continent, but those of Europe. One to get the purest water must go to the fountains head; in the same way one must study the works of the old masters.

If this Association is to attain to the highest degree of usefulness in the architectural profession in Canada and has at heart the raising of the profession to the highest and most respected position in the land, we must endeavor to do all in our power to this end. Let us begin with the training of our students who are the future architects of the Dominion, and determine that they shall have every opportunity and facility to gain a true and correct knowledge of architecture and the many branches of acknowledge  with which the architect of to day is familiar, especially the highest training of an artist in its broadest sense. Let us have a travelling studentship, to be won in competition, to enable the most capable of our students to enjoy the inestimable privilege of studying in Europe. I say privilege, because it does not matter how clever one may be, he is heavily handicapped in the race for excellence unless he studies in Europe the glorious works left to us by our fathers.

We are in a new country untrammelled by any school or manner of design; our requirements are different from any part of the States or Europe; we have more difficulties to contend with in the construction amid design of our houses than any other country in the world; we have tropical heat and arctic cold, then let mistake it our aim to make this architecture of Canada characteristic of Canada. The architecture of the past has all been guided more or less by conditions of climate. In Southern Europe we see the flat roof amid open piazza and balcony, amid the cap mouldings and string courses give the idea oh holding up or binding together. In the North of Europe we see time steep roof, the mouldings and string courses are undercut to throw the water off the walls—each telling their tale, the one of a hot, dry climate, the other of a cold, wet climate.

Let us then take the clue from the old masters and design as they did, to suit the climate; we can then be sure we are so far in the right path.

We will have a more difficult problem to solve; we have the warm climate of Italy and the cold climate of Northern Russia, but we have the advantage of seeing how each country designed, and in being guided by Nature let us have a style characteristic of the climate and country.

All this cannot be done in a day nor a year. nor a lifetime; no style was ever invented in so short a time; it took hundreds of years, but it was always steady progress; let us determine not to progress backward, as the Irishman would say, but let us leave the world further advanced than it was when we entered it.

