	<doctype type="text">120	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	December, 1892



under the Romans was consequently more varied as regards its design, and more cosmopolitan in its application than it was in the hands of any of the nations before their time.

There is, however, less distinction between Roman architecture and Greek than there is between the latter and its antecedents. The same orders were used, but in an enriched form. The Corinthian order was certainly improved by them, and the composite order is, after all, only a modification of the Corinthian. To the Romans, however, must be accorded the credit of introducing the semi-circular arch both as a constructive and decorative feature. They were not the inventors of this form of arch, but they applied it in such a manner as to make it a characteristic feature of their style of architecture and explode the ideas that had formerly existed as to its structural soundness.

Just as the columns were enriched, so also was the entablature. Wherever carving could be applied it was done, and where color could be introduced by the use of precious stones or metals no other mode of coloring was adopted. From first to last experience was the order of the day at Rome. But in all their work there is a sort of manliness visible, and no problem of structural difficulty ever presented itself but to be overcome. Roman architecture has also this interest attached to it, that it broke away from the horizontal lines which had ruled in all previous styles, and established a point of departure which led up to the adoption of vertical lines as the leading principle in succeeding styles. 



<article title="A reply to Mr. Bond's letter" author="">A REPLY TO <person>MR. BOND</person>'S LETTER.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT and BUILDER.

SIR,— In reply to young Mr. Bond's communication of 22nd Oct. last, in reply to mine which you previously published, commenting on your correspondent's mis-statements, permit me to state that I, as inspector of <person>Mr. Tuckett</person>'s building, ought to know when the carving was done on it, and I most emphatically deny that any was executed until long after your correspondent's spiteful notes had been forwarded to your

Herewith I send you a tracing taken from the original drawing, and request you to submit it to the criticism of any architect to say if not only the skilled sculptor, but the merest schoolboy in architecture, would not be justified in holding it up to ridicule.

Yours, &c.,

<person>JOHN WATSON</person>,



Inspector of Buildings, Hamilton, Ont.



[As no useful object is likely to be attained by continuing this correspondence, we decline to allow it to proceed further.— EDITOR C. A. and B.]



<article title="="">"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION

FOR A CITY HOUSE " author="">"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION

FOR A CITY HOUSE.

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invites competitive designs for a city dwelling, to cost $1 5,000 and to be erected on a lot 30 X 125 feet. The lot will face the narrow way, south, long way, east. The main west wall of the building must stand on the party line between the lots, and the main east wall must come upon the street line. There is to be no enclosed area for lighting.

The building is to contain three clear stories above ground, to be constructed of stone, or of stone and brick, with sloping or flat roof. No overhanging tile or shingle work will be allowed.

The entrance may be on either front, at the option of the designer.

The number and location of rooms and the purposes which they are to serve is left to the judgment of the designer.

Competitors will be required to furnish plans of basement and three upper stories, and elevations of south and east front. Perspectives may be submitted at the option of the competitors. Floor levels must be marked on the side of the elevations.

This competition is restricted to architectural students and draughtsmen in Canada.

Drawings must be made on sheets of heavy white paper or bristol board, r4 x 20 inches in size, and must be drawn sufficiently coarse to allow of their being reduced to one-half the above size. Drawings mast be made in firm, strong lines, with pen and black ink. No color or brush work will be allowed. Each drawing must be marked with the nom de Plume of its author, and the author's name, nom de plume and full address,

enclosed in a sealed envelope, must accompany each drawing sent in

Drawings must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, on or before the 4th of January, 1893. The right is reserved of publishing any drawing sent in. Drawings will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

The first premium will be $15, and the second, $10.

The merits of the designs will be decided by a committee composed of three members of the Ontario Association of Architects, and their decision will be final.



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREA L.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT and BUILDER).



It has been decided to hold monthly meetings of the Montreal members

of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>. On the evenings set for the meetings the members will dine together at the St. Lawrence Hall, and go direct from thence to the meeting in the Association rooms on St.

James' street. The first of these meetings took place last week, on which occasion a paper on The Functions of Truth in Art' was read by Mr. <person>A.

T.	Taylor, </person>F. R. I. B. A. The reading of the paper was followed by an interesting discussion. It is the intention also to revive the classes for students, which were attempted to be established last winter. The Montreal members of the Association have evidently set their hands to the accomplishment of practical work on behalf of the Association and the rising generation of architects. They deserve and should receive the most cordial assistance of every member of the profession.

<article title="the Functions of truth in art" author="Taylor, A.T.">THE FUNCTIONS OF TRUTH IN ART*



The foundation of art to be enduring must be laid in, what Carlyle calls



The eternal veritie." Of these one of the greatest is Truth.

There can be no real permanent art without truth and in all art there must be beauty, and these two are inseparably joined, for in all truth there is beauty and in the highest beauty there must be truth. If we study the great architectural epochs of the past we will find this truth recognized and given full expression to in their greatest and noblest memorials and achievements; and just in proportion as truth in construction and design was ignored so degeneracy in vigor and life set in. No nation and no individual can afford to neglect truth, whether in ethics, poetry or in art, It must be placed like a precious jewel in the breast-plate, unsullied and undimmed by compromises or subterfuges.

In painting—the most intangible of the graphic arts—the rules are somewhat less abstract and definite than in architecture and sculpture, but truth governs none the less. The great artist, to be sculptor, architect or painter, must be born; he is like the great poet, the great musician, the great prophet, he has a divine mission profound thoughts have been whispered into his soul to deliver to his fellow men and therefore, because we cannot always make them fit in with our preconceived ideas, we must not be too hasty in condemning them. Revelation comes to us with many voices, and thoughts in varied channels. Were these not in part sometimes incomprehensible to the average run of humanity, then would the artist not be worthy to be called "great' and become commonplace.

Nature is the fountain of art, the quarry from which arts achievements are obtained; but Nature has to be interpreted, and in the interpretations men may err. As miracles have been said to be not violations of natural law, but the action of a higher law of which at present we may be ignorant so certain phases of art, although apparently not true to Nature as we see it, may be entirely in sympathy with the deeper truths of Nature that we ourselves may not, as yet, have discovered and appreciated. Truth on its finite side is not absolute but relative, and therefore pre-Raphaelitism, Romanticism, Impressionism and many other isms have visions of truth in them important for mankind to know.

A picture may be truer to Nature and give one the very spirit of the scene although, probably, it may be a poorer imitation of the features of the landscape and of the ordinary color, than one which may be very correct in its lineaments and chromatic scale. Turner in many of his pictures took great liberties with Nature, but he has given us such an insight into the versatility of Nature, such atmospheric effects, such luminousness, and such a revelation of possibilities, that no one that I know of has ever surpassed and few equalled.

Have we not all seen a portrait in which all the features were correctly drawn and yet the whole effect wooden and inexpressive, and have we not seen another, it may have been but a rapidly dashed off sketch, roughly done, and perhaps not very correct in drawing, yet because there had been caught the spirit of the man, some special characteristic—THE MAN, not the outer shell—we felt at once it was the truer and better of the two. Truth is not merely imitation; were this so, then photographs as being most nearly correct transcripts of Nature would be the best and would take the place of paintings. Even leaving out the question of color you expect something more in a picture than in a photograph. You all remember the well known story of Zeuxis and Parrhasino who had entered into a friendly competition to paint the best picture; Zeuxis painted a bunch of grapes which looked so natural that the birds came and pecked at them, and when he called on his rival to draw asidet he curtain to show his picture the found that the curtain itself was the picture. Zeuxis confessed himself beaten,

*	Paper read by Mr. A. T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A.. R. C. A., before the Montreal members of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

</assoc>