

<doctype type="text">heavy taxation ; yet what money we have to spend is, I think, spent in an honest and fair way by the representatives of our city My friend, <person>Mr. Roy</person>, I am very proud indeed to know that you have been elected to-day President of this grand corporation. You are a credit as a body, and I hope that your society will live and prosper, and that the buildings that you will erect will equal any other buildings in the world."

The Chairman . "Gentlemen, we have a toast to propose, and that toast is a worthy one, for it is the toast of our sister Association of Ontario (Cheers). I am glad to tell you that we have the President here amongst us, and I hope that next opportunity some of us will be able to return the compliment. (Applause)."

The toast was duly honored.

<person>Mr. Curry</person>. "Mr. President and gentlemen, I have to thank you for the very kindly manner in which you have drunk the toast. I think you have done it much better than we toast the Quebec Association. However, you have one advantage over us, you have better speakers than we have. We are indifferent speakers as a body; I am not by any means the best, but I am not the worst either, so you can judge for yourselves and form an idea of our calibre. I must say I prefer the actual work to the speaking. (Laughter). However, this Association and the Ontario Association have the same work before them, and that is, I think, educational work (applause). We have to educate the profession, and I think those of the profession will admit that there is a heavy work to do in that line. Next we have to educate the public, which I think is a much easier task. Our present trouble consists very largely in the fact that the profession as a body is badly educated. The members are as a whole rather inferior to what they ought to be. This is true of course of every profession, but I think we should strive to raise ours to be the equal of any (applause), and carry it beyond, if it is possible to do so. The architect requires to know everything, especially in the opinion of his client. He is supposed to be a good business man ; to know all about construction , to know everything that a sanitary engineer knows-—but not as some sanitary engineers know it (laughter). He is also supposed to be versed in heating, ventilation and acoustics—to know how to make a room a certain size in which a speaker can be heard with advantage to himself and to the audience; he must be a thorough draughtsman, and know the history of architecture, and Heaven knows what else (laughter). In the end he has to become a specialist is some one branch or more. At the same time, it is really necessary that an architect should have a knowledge of all the branches that are necessary to the proper erection of buildings. He cannot know much about heating and ventilation unless he knows something of the methods by which they are to be carried out. A man cannot teach others anything, unless he knows something about it himself. An architect should above all things, have a pretty thorough knowledge of art. The question may be asked 'what is art?' That will have to decide itself. We know how our opinions change, we can even see it in the fashions of the day. The hat you wear to-day possibly you would not care to wear fix e years from now. So it is, we are continually progressing, still we can lay down a rule that what is reasonably good in art to-day will always be good. We can look back through the past and see that what was held to be good in architecture at any time, is always good. If a thing has any merit it will be recognized. Now the question that we have to do with as an Association is, what steps are we to take to produce a better educated lot of men than we our selves are ? It is not sufficient that we should educate men up to a certain standard ; we have got to make them perfect within reasonable bounds. We can strive for perfection, although we can seldom or never attain it. There is little encouragement given to a man at present to become proficient. There are several things to discourage him. A man will say to himself, 'I am going to become an architect of merit ;' he settles down to work, and devotes himself to study. The result is that he remains unknown, and does not get anything to do. - He may be thoroughly competent ; but someone else gets the work. Of course opportunities may come that will allow him to force his way to the front, and after that he can climb the ladder to the highest rung. It is our duty to raise the standard of the profession to the highest possible point. And how is that to be done? Well, we have already made considerable progress. Our Associations exist under special acts of the legislatures of our respective provinces. We in Ontario were able to secure a charter that did not give us all we wanted certainly; but which nevertheless improved our position considerably. It is a question how we are to be able to carry out our duties, with the difficulties before us. We, however, hope to carry them out, though we have to make a struggle. We have that word 'registered' inserted in the act, and all our members refuse to use the word. They say that if they are architects, they are architects, and that it is nor necessary for them to register or do anything else. If they have studied for their profession, they should be entitled to call themselves architects, and those who have not given the necessary time to the study should call themselves something else, not architects. We do not want to insist that those who wish to build must come to an architect to have the work done but we do ask that those who have, studied and who have become members of the Association, Through passing proper examinations or by whatever means may by be decided upon, should have the sole right to call themselves architects, and

that the public, when employing a man should have some guarantee that he is a capable man and that he is what he represents himself to be. Then, if a man employs an incompetent builder, he will only have himself to thank for it. Now, I think that the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has the desire, first and foremost, to educate. They have not so far taken any steps to make a tariff of rates or to help themselves individually. We have thought it wiser to pursue an even course, to do what we can for the education of our members. We have now a library sufficient for ordinary purposes, so that the young student is thus saved considerable expense. The thing can be carried on indefinitely, but we cannot do a great deal with a small amount of money. The fees are already high enough, and some members even complain as it is. They want the Council to show them some value. That we cannot do. But this we can do, we never propose to give them value ; but we propose to show them that they have got value They paid their fees to become members with the object of educating the young members, and in so doing, advancing the profession and making such men an honor to the profession. If they are not prepared to pay fees for that object, then the sooner they retire the better. You, I suppose, are in the same position here. You have members who seek individual to gain by being members of the Association Such men are not desirable. Only those members are desirable who wish to see the Association progress and see the members become an honor to the profession. It may be very nice to you to profit directly by a brother architect's bungling work; but, after all, these things are a drawback to the profession, and the public point to them as samples of architects capabilities, so the profession suffers. What we want to see is that when anything is entrusted to any member of the profession, good value is given, and that there can be no reason to grumble at the way in which the work has been carried out. I think I have occupied your time sufficiently, and will conclude by thanking you again for the very hearty manner in which you have honored the toast.

The chairman then called upon <person>Mr Baillairgé </person>of Quebec, for a song, and that gentleman complied, singing a French ballad in most acceptable style.

<person>Mr. Browne </person>"Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, as soon as you have composed you minds sufficiently after that beautiful song, I have the honor of proposing the toast of "<assoc>The Canadian Society of Civil Engineers</assoc>." The honor of proposing that toast is one which I esteem most highly. Canadian engineers heat the world. We are proud of them, and proud to see a member here to-night, and will only be too delighted to hear from him.'

The toast was enthusiastically honored.

<person>Professor Bovey </person>"Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, I am the victim of a deception I was told that when I came here I should have a good dinner, and I should hear some good speeches, and that was all I should have to do. But now it seems I have to take the place of a far better man, <person>Mr. Kennedy</person>, our President, and I am unable to do that, and can only thank the members for the honor they have done us. I should like to take advantage of a tale which Mr. Curry was good enough to tell me during the dinner A guest, when called upon to speak, got up and said he supposed he had had an invitation to be present in order that he might enjoy himself (laughter) ; but perhaps I might be allowed to speak not fur the Canadian Society of Engineers, as they can speak for themselves. but generally I agree with <person>Mr. Browne </person>that the Canadian engineers have a great reputation in all parts of the world. I would say that we at McGill College are looking forward with great pleasure to the visit of the Association to our buildings to-morrow, and I think you will agree with me when I say that for architectural effect, we have buildings that are unsurpassed, even if equalled, in any part of the world. I should not have dared to say this some time ago, but I have visited all institutions of this kind in Europe and the States, and I do not hesitate to say that there is not one of them better than, if there is any equal to ours in McGill Time will not permit me to speak of all the benefactors who have helped to this end. We have not to thank one man only We have first to thank Mr. <person>William Workman</person>, who was the first to help in this particular line. We have also to thank benefactors from all parts of the world. We have received assistance from places as far away as San Francisco, and even Mexico, as well as from Germany and other parts of Europe. I would especially refer to the almost unexampled munificence of one benefactor. I think we must be proud to have a man of such unbounded generosity among us as Mr.<person>William Macdonald</person>, and his generosity is not more remarkable than the wonderful manner in which he has carried out the work he has set himself to do. He only insists on one thing, and that is that everything must be carried out in the best possible manner. If there is anything wrong with the buildings, the architect alone is to blame. I have often heard it said, that although we have had large donations given us, we are never satisfied, and we are not; we want a great deal of money now. I should be sorry to hear any university say that they had enough. It would mark a crisis in the history of that university, and the point where that university is on the down grade. The more money a university can get, the more good a university can do. I will speak of one department, the department of architecture. Now there ought to be a department specially devoted to architecture in the great universities of the Province of Quebec, Laval, and also our own

