<doctype type="text">January, 1892	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	5



alterations, but this should he entirely at his own discretion. Again, it would be ridiculous to suppose that the examination of a building inspector at stated times of a structure, to see that vital points were attended to, could take the place of the regular and watchful supervision of the professional architect. I would not be iii f-aver of seeking any legislation in order to compel people to employ architects whether they desire it or not, but 1 think with suitable and rigid inspection those building would perceive that it was to their own interest to have the services of a competent architect.

There is one more consideration which might possibly become a subject for legislation. but it is a very difficult matter to deal with. 1 refer to building regulations from aim aesthetic point of view. Of course it would be impossible to establish a censorship over plans, and reject those which where considered ugly. Only autocratic power, joined to absolute good taste could do this. Still when at corporation at the public expense proceeds to beautify a city with parks and squares these improve the property it their immediate vicinity, and the public has a right to exact from the owners thus benefitted, that they shall not mar what has been done. If canons of good taste cannot be made law, at least it is possible to prevent mean buildings from being erected in such localities. It seems to me that the city should have power to regulate the minimum, or even in places where it would be desirable, the uniform height of buildings in parts specially favored, even if the favors consisted only of a better class of paving and sidewalks than were possessed by the city at large.

As to erections permitted in public property such as our own Mount Royal Park, the plans should certainly be submitted to a competent commission to decide not only if they possessed merit of themselves, but also if they were in harmony with the scene, so that man might not mar the beauty which God created.





<article title="Correspondence – Designs for world's fair monument" author="Baillairge, Charles ">DESIGNS FOR WORLD'S FAIR MONUMENT.

QUEBEC, Jan. 5th, 1892.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—Through being of French descent, I might be supposed to incline to the compliment of having the Eiffel tower repeated at Chicago, and as having myself been one of the competing architects for the proposed London tower, I may be supposed to have somewhat maturely considered the subject. I fully agree with the editors of the Scientific American, and have no doubt the general consensus of opinion will bear them out in deploring the fact that any imitation of the Eiffel tower is contemplated at the Columbian exhibition. The proposed structure, an engraving of which appears in their last issue, is, or will be looked upon, as they aptly foresee, as a servile and awkward imitation of its prototype, while without any of the elegance of the latter. It is, however, satisfactory to know, if they are certain they are rightly informed, that the structure is not to be fostered by the promoters of the exhibition, but to be merely a side show for penny purposes.

If the tower must be built, let us by all means have some alteration in its outline which will give it an air of originality, be it a cone or a pyramid, or the freestuns of an elongated cone, or better still, a series of superposed cylinders, decreasing in diameter, and thus leaving at each successive offset the breadth of a gallery with railing of sufficient height for security, and a floor at, say, every too feet, supposing this to be the height of section, with stairways and elevators around a central nucleus to reach the top something, in a word, after the design submitted by me for the London tower. (See design No. of the illustrated catalogue of the sixty eight competitive designs for the great tower for London, edited by <person>F. C. Lynde</person>, M. I. C. E., St. Stephens Chambers, Westminster, London, 1890). But best of all, why not tarry out that grand, that novel, that almost sublime conception illustrated last year in the same journal, of a sphere surmounted by a facsimile t)f the vessel in which Columbus sailed on his voyage of discovery. Then would the Columbian exhibition be truly unique and grandiose, and unlike anything the world has seen before. And with what simplicity of construction could not this be carried our, where all the parts can be made to one and the same model, if a perfect square, which it may be ft)r simplicity and rapidity of construction, as the extra time and trouble of making the globe spheroidal, would hardly be warranted under the circumstances the flattening at the poles being only one 300th (3 1/4 ft. in 1,000), an inequality between the polar and equatorial diameters which no human eye, however well tutored, could detect. And this again a form, the construction of which is so facile where the Divine architect comes to our aid in the suggestion afforded by the component ungulae or sections of an orange.

An erect globe, while not uncomplimentary to visitors from the southern hemisphere, the equator and the tropics, as less impartial to the ideas of middle-latitudinarians, would no doubt

have some popular advantages, as, in such case, the polar axis pointing to the zenith, would allow of all visitors seeing their respective meridians and the hour circles in a plane vertical or perpendicular to the horizon, as when, from any point on the earth's surface, looking towards the poles of the heavens ; and this arrangement would, moreover, afford the opportunity of having the horizontal outer galleries to concord with the parallels of latitude, and, therefore, also with the arctic and ant-arctic circles, the equator, the tropics and the zones. These galleries could be easily reached from the interior by radiating footways from the aerial line, around the solid or well-like nucleus of which a double spiral stairway might extend from ground level to the top, the one ascending, the other downwards to avoid confusion, or by two or more hoists or elevators stopping on their way tip and down at the several to degrees parallels of latitudes (87 1/3 ft. apart as measured on a meridian), or both stairs and hoists might be used at pleasure. Nevertheless, the bulk of mankind being in the northern hemisphere, and all, or nearly all, in or near middle latitude or about halfway between the equator and the pole, and as the erect globe would either place Columbus and his crew and craft, to crown the whole, in the Arctic Sea, if such there be, or lower and tilt his vessel to the latitude of the Atlantic, which would look awkward and unmonumental; it may therefore on the whole be considered best, and so that Columbus may be the crowning figure at the summit, to tilt the axis of the tiny world to true parallelism with the axis of the earth, thus pointing to the opposite poles of the heavens. With this arrangement, the stairs and elevators having to be vertical, as in the former case, would come out at top under the hulk of the vessel, and the outer galleries, if any, would, as they must naturally be horizontal, cut the parallels of latitude and other circles at an angle or inclination to the horizon equal to the latitude or elevation of the pole. And should this scheme on the scale proposed—a globe of a diameter of t,oooft.,—be considered too gigantic, too costly in view of the advantages to be derived, let the diameter be reduced to 500 ft., and event at this figure would the proposed sphere have a cubical capacity of some 66 millions of feet, that is, greater by about 6,000,000 than that of the greatest of the far famed pyramids of Egypt. This decrease in the total height of the structure, from 1,235 to say 617 ft., would still leave it the greatest monument of the earth, bring its features of land and sea within easier distance of the eye and more at command of the search lights from the surrounding 250 ft. towers or observatories. The interior, I suppose, would be done in imitation of the starry firmament, with incandescent lights of varied candle power to give an idea of the varied brilliancy of the stars or planets.

Yours truly,

<person>CHAS. BAILLAIRGE</person>,

Architect and Engineer.



PUBLICATIONS.



The announcement that <person>Mr. Howells </person>will leave Harper's Magazine, to take editorial charge of the Cosmopolitan, on March 1st, calls attention to the process of building up the staff of a great magazine. Mr. Howells, who is recognized universally as the foremost American of letters, upon the expiration of his contract with Harper Brothers, on the first of March will take in hand the destinies of a magazine which promises to exercise a share of influence with the reading classes of the United States. His entire services will be given to the Cosmopolitan, and everything he writes will appear in that magazine during the continuance of his editorship.

Messrs. <firm>Merchant & Co.</firm>, of Philadelphia, have published a book entitled "What Visitors will be shown at the World's Fair by Merchant & Co.'s Brownies." In a series of excrutiatingly funny engravings, representatives of every clime are portrayed as conning to the World's Fair where they view with amazement and much delight. Merchants & Co.'s various exhibits, consisting of roofing plates, star ventilators, sheet copper, seamless tubing, electrical supplies, spiral rivetted pipe, solders and type metals, anti frictions metals, etc. After observing their various useful applications. and witnessing the prize of merit being bestowed upon them, the visitors depart for home bearing with them as souvenirs samples of the materials mentioned. and also no doubt an appreciative opinion of the

ability of a firm which succeeds in combining instruction enjoyment and business profit in so happy a manner.



The <firm>Barnum Wire & Iron Co., </firm>of Toronto Junction. have found it necessary t' make an assignment for the benefit of their creditors.

The liabilities are estimated at $50,000, and the assets at about half that amount, A difficulty with the town authorities concerning a bonus which was promised the company but which for some cause, was never paid to them, has had much to do with the present unfortunate result.

