	<doctype type="text">December. 1892	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	121



saying, ' I deceived the birds, but you have deceived an artist." You also remember the story of the painting of the fly by young Giotto on the nose of a figure his master was painting, which was so lifelike, that to the delight of the pupil his master tried to brush it away with his hand. Mere imitation, however clever, is not the highest form of art, it is a trick that can be learned, but it is the mind of man impressed on the canvas that gives it value. By some strange perversity we have rigorously demanded

sadly

Truth in speech and action but allowed it	o go by default in art.

The need of truth in art is paramount and I should like to emphasize it still more and say that art will flourish first in proportion as faithful and honest methods are employed and truthful and honest thoughts impressed on the work.

Art in all its phases should be interesting to us as architects; as 1 hold very strongly that an architect should be an artist as well as a constructor; but it is natural that it should be of special interest to us in its relation to architecture and the applied arts. In everyday art this question of Truth presses most closely to us. Our houses, our streets, our surroundings, are with us all the time and unconsciously influence us; and if these are not instinct with truth we shall make our own Nemesis to bring on our own punishment? I am happy to think that the crusade against shams, largely influenced by the powerful and brilliant writings of John Ruskin, has resulted in the abolition of many of the worst, but they are hard to kill, and 100 many are still left to us and need rooting out also. It seems to me that a fundamental rule is this: Always let a thing look what it is, and do not make it try to look like something else. Iron and steel are great friends to us. but they have often turned to be our enemies, by reason of our inability to use them rightly and, I am sorry to say, they are responsible for much questionable work; the facility with which we can bridge wide spaces, carry heavy walls over voids, and generally disregard the disposing of walls, piers, etc., above each other, has led to the violation of some of the element any principles of construction. We have also to thank the same material for making it possible to construct those enormous lofty buildings in which Chicago has the unenviable notoriety of taking the lead. I cannot but think that these will, before long, come to be looked upon as stupendous blunders; the utter disproportion of scale and mass to their surroundings, the fatal disturbance of harmony and proportion to the environment, to say nothing of the disturbing sense of feeling that what is visible of the slim, lower stone and brick piers, is manifestly and apparently inadequate to support the enormous superstructure without the aid of iron or steel supports behind the piers. In many modern buildings the outer walls help little in the construction, and are merely enclosures and could be removed without affecting the stability of the floors or roof. I cannot but feel there is a grave danger looming ahead for many of the skeleton framed buildings in which the iron or steel uprights are built into brick-work for fireproof purposes. and when in time rust and decay will set in without the possibility of detecting or remedying it until it makes itself known by sudden and fatal failure.

In speaking of Chicago one's thoughts involuntarily turn to the White City which has been rapidly rising in its midst for the World's Fair, The material called staff, made of plaster, jute and water, which has been employed for most of the exterior, has proved such a pliable and adaptive material for temporary work that there is a great danger that it will be adopted for more permanent structures, and just as we are congratulating ourselves that we have got rid of 'compo" and stuccoed fronts, which so long held horrid sway, to the utter degradation of all true art, we will be threatened with a return of the old pernicious and objectionable material, only perhaps a little better in quality. We have to guard against the lack of truth in construction and in outward finish. If we can only afford to build a common brick house let us try to bring out the utmost capabilities of the material in simplicity, and not cover it with plaster and line it to look like costly stone, until the miserable subterfuge is evident when the plaster begins to fall off. If a plaster finish is desired, then let it be treated as plaster, and stamp patterns upon it or leave it rough cast and honest, but do not try to make it look like stone when it is not.

Motives of economy and narrowness of view on the part of clients have been to blame I am afraid for the extensive use of galvanized iron in cornices and such like—so detrimental to the dignity and truthfulness of a building in the long run, and it is for each of us to consider seriously how far it is right for us to pander to this. It is a phase of architecture largely peculiar to Canada, and hardly one that we would care to proudly hand down to posterity as our contribution to a noble national style of architecture. If we cannot afford doors of hardwood, let us have them of pine, honestly varnished or painted, but do not let us grain and paint them to imitate oak or mahogany or maple. A thousand times better to have a plain thing that is honest and truthful than an elaborate thing that is a lie. No true art can exist where such things prevail, and we must remorselessly root them out. Until quite recently the grained roof of Milan Cathedral was painted with imitation tracery work to look like perforated stone, and deceived many people. Within the last two or three years, however, this deceit has happily been painted out, and it is the intention to decorate it with frescoes of sculptured subjects in an honest genuine manner.

At Abbotsford, Sir Walter Scott had his paintings fixed to the walls and frames painted round them with sham mouldings and ornament, shaded to imitate relief work, and this is a very common form of deceit. You will see it even in churches, where surely, if anywhere, truth should be absolute in its sway. There may still be seen entrance halls and staircases of some houses, the halls hung with papers to imitate marbles of all colors and kinds

—Siena, dove, purbeck; generally, part of it is coming off and revealing

the paperyness of the sham, and there may also be seen papers to imitate different kinds of wood and which I regret to say may even be bought in the market to-day. Surely in this age of pretty wall papers and artistic designs such poverty of invention, to say nothing of the deceit, is indefensible. It is not so long ago since it was a common thing to break up a blank wall by putting in sham windows and painting on the sashbars and glass, and I have even seen fancy blinds painted on. And such was the rage forty or fifty years ago for uniformity, that if a house required a wing on one side, a similar wing had to be put up on the other, even although it was only a thin sham wall with nothing behind it. Some of you may have seen imitation colored glass made of paper which was intended to be pasted on to the ordinary glass of a window to make people think it was stained glass. These may be thought trivial details, but I hold no details to be trivial, and although we may not bow down to falsehood in that form, it is so hydra headed that other heads of deceit will arise in other forms to gain approbation.



Truth demands that in all design the nature and character of the materials to be used should be considered, so that the inherent quality of each should be brought out in the design. Let what we have be simple or expensive, but let it be at least what it pretends to be, and if at the same time it is good in design, then we can safely take pleasure in it with a good conscience. Nothing is too trivial for truth to hold sway. It should permeate down to the smallest detail. A great writer has put this admirably, yet not too strongly. He says: "Nobody wants ornaments in this world, but everybody wants integrity. All the fair devices that ever were fancied are not worth a lie; leave your walls as bare as a planed board, or build them of baked mud and chopped straw if need be, but do not roughcast them with falsehood." Very subtle forms of falsehood are creeping in under the guise of artistic effect, In the States especially you will see new houses built to look old, with the stones purposely chipped and broken and made to look weather-beaten, so as to give to a new house the effect which has only been put daintily and lovingly on by the finger of Time on an old one, after perhaps a century or two of caressing. It has affected modern draughtsman ship also, for new houses and buildings are delineated as if they were ruins crumbling into decay. and fictitious aids are freely sought after to enhance effect.

If honesty and truth could but pervade the execution as well as the design of our architectural and engineering works how many accidents and lives might have been spared. Every week, I would almost say every day, accidents happen from dishonest and faulty workmanship—vessels lost at sea. trains wrecked, bridges giving way, houses falling. But this faulty work is not confined to modern times; recently, the ancient central tower of Peterborough Cathedral showed signs of failure, and it was found necessary to take it down and rebuild it, In the process of demolition it was found to the amazement of everyone that the piers supporting the towers were only composed of a skin of good masonry and that the inside was filled in with rubbish. Surely the jerry builder has been an institution in all ages Examples could be multiplied indefinitely, but enough has been said to make my meaning clear, I think. Entire honesty and thoroughness in everything is what is wanted, not only in what will be seen but also in what may not be seen. It is an old saying, "The Gods see everywhere."

I would close by quoting a sentence from an address delivered by Gounod at the Academie des Beaux Arts in Paris a few years ago. He says "Art reposes in Truth. Wherever Truth is ignored and violated there begins or is accomplished the work of disintegration or death. Serve Truth. Truth alone gives stability and liberty. Serve her generously, valiantly, nobly. Yield yourselves to her. She is so divinely grateful that she will pay you a hundredfold the battles fought for her.





<article title="the R.C.A." author="">THE R. C. A.

AT a meeting of the council of the <assoc>Royal Canadian Academy </assoc>recently held in Toronto, the following committee was appointed to select pictures from the exhibition to be held in Montreal in February, and if deemed advisable to select works of art by Canadian arists generally, to send to the Canadian fine art exhibition at the World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago, which will be opened May 1st, 1893, viz. —Mr. <person>Robert Harris </person>and <person>Wm. Brymner</person>, Montreal, and Mr. Homer Watson, Doon. Mr. Robert Harris was chosen to hang the pictures selected. Resolutions of sympathy were passed to the widows of the lately deceased members, <person>W. G. Storm</person>, architect, and Paul Peel, the artist.

It is the intention of the academy to make as good an exhibit of Canadian art at Chicago, as can be got together. The Dominion government has agreed to pay the expenses of the exhibition.



<article title="Toronto Arts Students' League""author="">TORONTO ARTS STUDENTS' LEAGUE.

A very successful exhibition of recent work of the members was given from the 5th to the 10th inst., in the League rooms, <building>Imperial Bank building</building>. The exhibit spoke volumes for the industry of the members and likewise displayed a marked improvement in skill. A further reference to this exhibition and to the work of the League will appear in our New Year number.

