	<doctype type="text">November, 1892	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER.	109



able hard wax finish, or this may be done with beeswax and linseed oil.

 There is such a variety of ways to treat a wall that it will be impossible now to speak of every method. The whole height may be finished in wood paneling, or the woodwork may just come high enough to form a dado; often it is nothing more than a base, and when this is so, the space above can be broken up in the decoration as dado filling and frieze, or just filling and frieze. Sometimes the frieze can be omitted with good effect, and the wall finished with small mouldings at ceiling or merged into ceiling without any break.

The most common wall decoration is wall paper, but of this not much will be said. It is produced with flat and relief patterns. Block, satin and mica or silk papers all give good effect. An excellent idea in wall papers has just been brought out in New York it is known as the "Soudanese" pattern, In this the dominant color of the filling is carried into the dominant color of the ceiling thus the frieze serves to interblend the wall and ceiling. Ingrain papers are now being used with patterns stencilled on after being hung. Good effects can be obtained if the colors are well chosen. Munro's ingrain papers are the best.

Besides wall papers there are many other hangings used for walls, such as tapestry, silk, embossed leather, Japanese leather, Lincrusta-Walton, anaglypta, stereo-relief, lignomur and a number of others. Japanese leather is a relief hanging decorated by bronzes and gold by the manufacturers in antique effects; it makes a very suitable filling for a dining room where there is a dado of oak. Lincrusta-Walton is a composition relief material, stamped; the relief work is very sharp and clean, but has rather a precise effect it can be painted or decorated to taste. Anaglypta is another stamped relief material it is not so sharp in its relief as Lincrusta, but has more of a modelled effect. Stereo-relief is a fire-proof composition hanging, cast in flexible moulds it can be obtained in both high and low relief and with a perfect undercut from the process of its manufacture the stiffness and preciseness of stamped hangings is avoided, and a fee artistic effect is gained. Lignomur is composed of chemical wood fibre in bold relief; it can be painted, stained or varnished just as if it were natural wood.

The ways of decorating walls without hangings are just as numerous as the many varieties of hangings in existence and it will be impossible to speak of them all now, as this alone would require a whole evening. They may be painted in many ways and left either plain, with stencilled ornaments, or frescoed

the plaster is stucco finished, an effective way is to gradate the color, and if consideration is given to the way the light comes into the room, beautiful results can be got. Immense color combinations can be got by studying the tints on autumn leaves the harmony on them is perfect and the tints are so varied that the scope of their application is unlimited.

Linspar is a mineral composition for decorating walls and ceilings it can be used as a stucco finish, combed or brought out in relief, and is well adapted to modelling ornament. Some painters get the same effect with a composition of their own it is then usually known as plastico ; papier-mâché and other relief ornaments can be worked in with it and the whole decorated as desired. An effective way to decorate relief hangings, such as lincrusta, anaglypta, etc., is to paint them, rub verdigris into the hollow, and then apply gold leaf by a roller or pad ; this will just catch the high lights and accentuate the relief; the result is an antique effect and looks immense. Whistler, the American artist, obtained a striking effect in a small room by a very novel method he painted the walls a pure black and then overlaid this with a semi-transparent yellow the result was a misty foggy look, and the room appeared to be much larger.

Rooms treated in the Adams or Rococco styles may be finished in white or ivory enamel, picked out with gold or silver for the very best work of this kind the wood should be of cherry, as it is so close grained and hard the next best wood for the purpose is white wood or poplar. The wood should first be filled, then given two or three coats of white lead paint and finished with two coats of enamel, rubbed down at each coat. The white lead paint is put on to give a body to the work. Plaster should receive a coat of white shellac instead of being tilled and then about four coats of white lead: after this the enamel is applied as on the woodwork. Patent enamel may be used, but, if pre

ferred, it can be made with zinc white and light hard oil varnish. Zinc white is used in preference to lead in the last coats, as it is a purer white, but would not do for the foundation on account of its shrinking quality. Silk hangings can be panelled or draped all around the room either with a frieze of other materials or of silk festooned and caught up with relief ornament, having swags of cord and tassels. This of course does not include every way of treating walls—for instance, they could be kalsornined or— whitewashed

Ceilings may be tinted, papered, panelled or finished in relief work. Heavy oak beams and cross beams make an excellent (lining room ceiling the panels could be filled with relief hangings, modelled plaster or stucco work, which would look well if tinted a rich brown and broad plays of lights introduced in it from the direction of the window's by chromos and vandykes. Ceilings of plaster ribs and modelling give great scope to the decorator, as also do ceilings having stereo-relief or carton-pierre ornament. Ceilings can also be painted in oils or water color. Alabastine is a patent water color preparation which can be obtained n delicate tints and gives good results.

The mantels should be of similar finish to that of the room, and grates and hearths chosen with a view to the general harmony. An open fireplace having an enamelled cream color tile backing, hearth of similar tiles with Mexican onyx border and facing of Mexican onyx, with simple oxidized brass edging frame would be very suitable in a room finished in ivory enamel. Enamel tiles are preferable to glazed where delicacy of tint is required, such as would be in this case. Briquette tiles should be used for backing's, as the flat tiles are liable to be cracked off by the heat. Care should always be taken to proportion the hearth, both in size and color, to the rest of the work. Bronzed relief linings look well with the darker woods. Enamelled and ordinary pressed bricks can be used for both tire places and mantels. With the Roman, Carthaginian and moulded bricks now made, great variety in design can be obtained. Other materials, such as stone, marble and slate, are used for mantels, and in England cast iron is largely used, painted to correspond with the room.

Hardware is a subject which should be taken up separately, but as this forms part of a complete whole, something must be said about it. This, as every other part, should be chosen with regard to the ultimate effect. Furniture can be obtained either plain or ornamented, and in a great number of finishes, such as plain brass, bronze, nickel plate, silver plate and gold plate. Most of these finishes have sub-finishes ; for instance, oxodized effects and matching one finish with .another. Iron is finished effectively by the Bower- Barff process which converts the surface of the metal into magnetic oxide of iron and makes it absolutely rustless this is very appropriate for halls and rooms finished in oak.

In a large house it is well not to carry the same finish all through, but consider the effect of the different rooms. A drawing room finished in enamel and gold would look well with gold plated furniture, and so on. Of course, it would not be well to get too much variety this way, and a little care must be exercised. A look of completeness is given to the work if attention is paid to small details, such as finishing that portion of a butt hinge which shows inside a room to correspond with the hall the heads of window head screws should also have the same finish as furniture of room.

In conclusion, it is only necessary to repeat that everything should be designed and selected with regard to the whole effect, and if this is done we ought to have as a result, a thoroughly artistic and satisfactory home.



<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

WE have been favored by the Secretary with the R. I. B, A. Kalendar for 1892-93, which we find to be quite as instructive as usual.

<person>Mrs. Schuyler Van Rensselaer</person>'s papers on the great English Cathedrals, which have been appearing in The Century Magazine for some years, have at length been issued in book form, making a handsome, royal octavo volume of 400 pages. These articles which have been written by an amateur for amateurs, have been carefully revised by the author and greatly augmented, and with the splendid illustrations by <person>Joseph Pennell </person>154 in number—present a vivid panorama of St. Pauls, Canterbury, York, Wells and the other great Cathedral churches of England. The book, considered either from an historical or a critical standpoint, is a valuable addition to ecclesiastical literature. Published by The Century Co., New York. Price $6.00.

