	<doctype type="text">112	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	November, 1892



<article title=" SOME NOTES ON THE RELATION AND APPLICATION OF

THE SISTER ARTS, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE " author="Taylor, A.T.">SOME NOTES ON THE RELATION AND APPLICATION OF

THE SISTER ARTS, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.

TO ARCHITECTURE.*

By A. T. TAYLOR.



Architecture, Painting and Sculpture, like the three graces, should be intertwined in inseparable bonds in our monumental art. Each may live apart and be beautiful in itself, but the perfect life can only be consummated in conjunction with each other. Architecture, the first-born of the sisters, flourished for a while, but conscious of her needs, took under her sheltering wing her younger sisters, Mural Painting and Monumental Sculpture. Painting and sculpture apart from architecture are later growths, and I cannot but think all suffer from the severance. The earliest examples of painting and sculpture known to us were always employed to heighten the effect and intensify the functions of the architecture, and many of the finest treasures of our picture galleries and sculpture galleries to-day were originally conceived and designed with the setting of some cathedral or noble building.

Let us glance briefly, 1st, at mural painting and color as applied to our architecture, and 2nd, at sculpture and carving in the same relation.

First, of color decoration.—The love of color is natural to man. All savage people have in common the love of bright colors, and we instinctively rejoice in the poly-chromatic feast spread before us in nature, ever varying with the changing year.

Recent researches have demonstrated the fact beyond dispute that in all ages and amongst all peoples color has had an important place in architecture. Hiltorph in his investigations in Sicily and the Acropolis of Selinas and other temples, found abundant traces of rich color on all the buildings, and recent investigations in Greece have abundantly proved the liberal use the Greeks made of color on the exterior of their temples, etc. The custom also prevailed extensively all over France in the middle ages and during the period of the Renaissance, but gradually declined in the reign of Louis

XIV.	Viollet le Duc, the late eminent architect and antiquanan made a careful examination of Notre Dame cathedral at Paris, anti found unmistakable evidence that a large portion of the facade had been radiant with color, and even in England many of the cathedrals there show also remains of colour, but the climate has dealt too rigorously with them to leave much evidence.

Under the sunny skies of Italy, to this day, they revel in the most beautiful colors on the outside of their buildings. The <building>Duomo at Florence </building>and the older Baptistry are glorious in colored marbles, and not a little of the indescribable beauty and loveliness of Giottos' Tower there, is due to its color as seen under soft Italian skies. <building>St. Marks at Venice</building>, both inside and out, is rich in colored marbles and gold mosaics, mellowed by time into beautiful hues.

Somehow when we moderns took to borrowing Roman orders and architecture the dead forms only were reproduced and the rich color was forgotten.

The monotony and dullness of the average streets of cities are very depressing. Some years ago in London the average fashionable house had a dingy colored compo-cement front and the back was too dreadful to think of; then there came a reaction, and armies of painters appeared, and lo the fronts of the houses blossomed out in claret color, and sage greens, and blood reds, and mustard yellows, and other colors hard to give a name to; and, although in some cases presenting a somewhat incongruous and piebald appearance, were yet infinitely better than the suicidal looking fronts of old. The next stage was better still—that of using honest material of natural pleasing color which would withstand the smoky atmosphere. So terra cotta and tile work and warm colored stone were and are used.

In New York there was a brown stone period when a man could not show himself in society unless he lived in a brown stone house, and so streets and terraces of brown stone still shadow our spirits. New York and other cities had also their white marble period, when to live in a marble house was thought the acme of bliss, and so leprous looking erections crept out and reared their heads in the streets, and to come nearer home, a cut limestone house was considered amongst ourselves as the sign of eminent respectability. Now, however, more pleasing arrangements of material and color are being introduced,—red and mottled plum colored bricks and



*Paper read at the 'Third Annual Convention of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>.

Red and warm creamy colored stones meet the eye in all the newer quarters of cities, and in combination with the green of the trees and grass, make  pleasant symphonies. We do not want the exterior of our houses to be like harlequins, but neither do we want them to be like quakers or grey nuns.

In passing I would just mention the beautiful majolica or faience work of Luca della Robbin which glows from so many of the facades of the Italian churches. They were chiefly figure work of a religious nature—holy families, virgins and child saints, etc., but so beautifully modelled and such rich colors burnt in and glazed so as to be almost imperishable. The secret of the art was so well kept by the Robbin family that it died with them and we have been unable to get the full brilliancy of all the colors, but a recussitation of this decoration in some such form would seem to be very suitable to the conditions of modern times.

For the interior decoration and embellishment of our best buildings we have many noble examples in the ancient fresco work still left to us in such buildings as the <building>Sistine Chapel at Rome </building>in the Loggia and Stanzes of the Vatican in the Campo Santa at Pisa, and in numerous churches and public buildings. In these the drama of human life is portrayed in all its lights and shades, whether religious, secular or classical, and I can conceive of no grander or nobler way of applying mural painting to a noble structure than by such representations, embodying—if in a sacred edifice—a nation's religious beliefs and aspirations, and—if in secular buildings—a nations history and noble deeds of her sons. In our modern work there has been far too little of this——the highest and noblest of ornamentation. We have a little of it in some of our churches and public buildings, more or less satisfactorily carried out. Many examples will occur to you all, such as in Paris in the Pantheon, in the Hemicycle of the Beaux Arts, etc. In London, the Houses of Parliament have been partially treated in the same way, where the Death of Nelson and the Victory at Waterloo are appropriately painted on the walls, and also where scenes from the stirring history of England in the time of Cromwell and the Charles's line the corridors, to keep ever before the eyes of the legislators the lessons of the past. In the Manchester town hall the interior of the walls are being decorated by those gifted geniuses <person>Frederick Shields </person>and <person>Ford Madox Brown</person>, with subjects front the history of that city. In the <building>Parliament Houses at Ottawa </building>there is a picture commemorating the Confederation of the Dominion, painted by Mr. Harris of our city, a few years ago. This is, however, a framed picture. A series of such would be the most fitting decoration for our legislative halls that I can conceive of, and if instead of being pictures in frames they could be incorporated in the decoration of walls, either in fresco or other work, they would be better still, In the Bank of Montreal I had the good fortune to be able to formulate some such scheme on a small scale.

There I endeavored to represent in a permanent form scenes in the early history of our country, such as The Landing of Jacques Cartier at Montreal,' Champlain at the Chaudiere," "La Salle setting out for the discovery of the North West," etc. Our City Halls and Courts of justice ought to furnish wall spaces for appropriate decorations of this kind, and there is heroism in our own history and in the present (lay as worthy to be immortalized and handed down to posterity as any in the days of old. There are triumphs of peace as well as of war, victories of the pen as well as of the sword, that are waiting for worthy pictorial representation in all the arts.

We come now to our 2nd and last division of our subject—Sculpture and Carving in relation to Architecture. Certain writers have fallen into the mistake of claiming too much for sculpture on our buildings, declaring that it is the "soul and voice of architecture." With these writers I cannot agree. 'Were all painted decoration and sculptural ornament omitted from a building, it were possible by reason of perfect proportion, magnificent mass, grace of outline, subtle combination of light and shade, beauty and refinement of mouldings, and balance of parts, to produce a building that would impress all beholders, Of this we have many examples n early ancient work. On the other hand, however, there is no doubt that appropriate sculpture and painting lends an additional charm to the work, lifting it up to a higher plane of excellence and symbolizing in a higher and more tangible degree the aspirations, hopes, faith and morals of the community. In the use of sculpture on our buildings it has always seemed to me that the purpose and object of the building to be thus ornamented should always be kept in mind.

Thus on a church, or other sacred building, the sculptured ornament should have direct reference to sacred subjects and be largely symbolical of the faith, the hopes, the history and the bright examples set before us. You all probably have seen buildings intended for sacred uses that you could not tell from a music or concert hall. If the building is a town hall, in its ornament it should have reference to civic matters and such as affect the common weal if a court house, it should have ideas embodying law, justice and such like. If the building is a school or college or place of learning, then appropriate symbols and mottos and the names of great men distinguished in special branches of study should be inscribed upon the walls if a picture gallery, the choice of sculpture and suitable decorations drawn from art is obvious if a public library and reading room, then English literature is a perfect storehouse of suggestions; if a private house, domestic panels and ornaments of a homelike nature and inscriptions add greatly to the interest. It is no small part of the attraction and charm of the old houses of Edinburgh, Chester, London, etc., to spell out those legends and mottoes and texts that our ancesters loved to carve in stone over their 'doorways, etc. What an added charm the streets and buildings of our cities would have if this distinctiveness and appropriateness of sculptured ornament and features could only be carried out.

we have many fine examples of what I am trying to advocate, in the

