<doctype type="text">February, 1892

THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 15

and then people would know just exactly how much they would have to pay. Would one-half per cent. for the second, one-third per cent, for the third, anti (me-fourth per cent. for the fourth be a fair and reasonable figure?

<person>Mr. Jarvis </person>did not think that the public would readily consent to pay such large amounts as that.

Mr. Billings did not consider that so very far out of the way on a $50,000 building the second man would only get $250.

Thc chairman agreed with <person>Mr. Curry </person>as to the fairness of the amounts mentioned, and the latter's suggestion that the committee should be instructed to take this matter into its corisideration and report to the convention to-morrow was finally adopted. At the chairman's request, Mr. Curry named Messrs. <person>Dick</person>, <person>Burke</person>, <person>Bousfield</person>, Billings and himself as the committee to deal with the subject.

Mr. Curry called the attention of the members of the Association to the desirability of strictly adhering to these conditions. Some seemed to think that they were prepared for the purpose of affording a little amusement for the members. They were going to enter into competitions with others with these rules as the basis and, seeing that as a rule, the men at the top of the profession did not bother themselves with competitions, it was for the members of thc Association to say whether any member should enter any competition where these rules are not the basis of the competition. The, trouble with competitions in the past had been that they had never been at all fair for the architect. There never could be a competition held that would be perfectly fair for the architects without resulting in great benefit to those holding it. There was no use meeting here from time to time and laying down conditions unless it was understood that they will be rigidly adhered to by members of the Association. (Hear, hear.) If the members of the Association did not think it worth their while to stick to matters of this kind, then they had better drop out at once. It should be definitely understood that no member of the Association would enter any competition unless it was to be conducted upon this basis. The only way to build the Association up was for thc members to stick to one another not to make it a combine' to injure the public, but to unite in such a way that the union would benefit the public as well as themselves. (Applause.)

After some further discussion a vote was taken on the wish of the meeting, and it was decided that the whole report would lie over t 11 to-morrow morning.

When the report of the Committee on "Building Materials" was called for, <person>Mr. Townsend</person>, the chairman, announced that be was only able to make a preliminary report, as the tests were not yet completed. Very exhaustive tests had been conducted, with the result that all samples of stone submitted that could be broken with a pressure of 100,000 lbs., had been tested. It was found, however, that half, or nearly half, of the samples sent in could not be broken with the machine that was available. Another machine was being erected with double the capacity ; this machine was nearly ready, and in a short time he expected to publish, not only the tabulated results of the tests, but also a great deal of valuable information about the quarries of the Province—their location and characteristics. This would be (lone in such time that it would be. ready for proper presentation at the next meeting of the Association. In the meantime the members would gather from the experiments to be made by Prof. Galbraith to-morrow, something of the manner in which these tests are conducted.

The chairman announced that these tests were to be continued, and that in the course of time the results would be published.

Mr. Bousfield reminded the meeting of thc question of a suitable indenture awaiting consideration.

The Chairman said that for his part he thought that the two questions of the indenture and the competition were very important questions, because, when once adopted, they ought to be permanent, and not tampered with nor changed. Perhaps it would be better to defer the consideration of them until the morning. The order for to-morrow would therefore be First, report of committee on premiums second, the indenture ; third, Mr. Curry's paper fourth, <person>Prof. Galbraith</person>'s tests.

<person>Mr. Billings</person> read a paper prepared by <person>Mr. Fuller</person>, C. E., of Ottawa, on " Ventilation in Public Buildings," which, together with the discussion thereon, will appear in a subsequent issue.



SECOND DAY.

The Association was called to order at 10:30 by the President, the first order of business taken up being the report of the Committee appointed yesterday re the filling of the blanks in regard to the premiums in the conditions for competition.

Mr. Curry announced that all the members of the Committee had not met, but part of them had, and they recommended that the first prize be one-half of one per cent., the second prize one-third of one per cent., and the third prize one-fifth of one per cent. In a competition of $100,000, that would mean that the first prize would be $500, the second prize $330, and the third prize $200.

As clause 14 was still under discussion the meeting cons idered the question What course of procedure was best in case the author of the best drawing did not otherwise command the entire confidence of the experts. The discussion resulted in a slight emendation of the original draft.

The conditions of competition were then adopted as a whole, as follows

DRA FT.

	1. The	is proposing to erect a building the cost of

which is not to exceed	and have appointed a Building Committee with full power to select an architect to carry out the work

2. The Committee has appointed M	architect, as professional adviser, and will appoint two other architects, nominated by the Council of the Ontario Association to act as experts with him to decide the relative merits of the designs submitted in this competition. The two experts to be nominated by the Council will be selected from men who have no knowledge of the competition other than what they may have obtained through reading these Conditions.

3.	All designs are to \be made in conformity with the instructions herein given, and when it is slated that a certain requirement must be placed in a certain definite position or is to be of a certain definite size the same must be adhered to in every particular. The competitor will be allowed reasonable latitude in planning or designing when the requirements are only stated generally.

4.	The drawings enumerated in clause No. are to be furnished by each competitor and these only will be received and considered; but minor variations of detail and alternative arrangements may be shown on any of the drawings by means of flaps. A competitor may omit any of the drawings called for, but it will be at his own risk, in case the experts should decide that they have not sufficient information before them to fairly judge the design in competition with jtS competitors. The drawings must be accompanied by a brief memorandum, typewritten, explaining any points in thc design not plainly shown on the drawings.

5.	The drawings required are as follows 

6.	The drawings are to be executed to a uniform scale of            to the foot and finished in line only, without shading, with Indian ink and with the drawing pen.

7.	There is to be no brush work except in finishing the windows and sections with a solid black tint. The lettering and figuring is to be plain and simple and is to be confined to the name and dimension of the rooms, written in the middle of each, without explanatory comments which are to be put by themselves, as has been stated in a separate memorandum, The number of square feet in each room is to be given, as well as its lineal dimensions. The drawings are to be made upon white paper, cut down to the dimensions of             inches.

8.	If the plans of two or more storeys are identical, all but one may be omitted, and when storeys are exactly symmetrical in plan, half only may be shown. A competitor may send in alternative elevations with any set of drawings.

9. The perspective is to be set up from an	scale plan and is to be drawn in line only, without shading and without any accessories such as sky, trees, figures, etc. The plane of the picture is to touch the most advanced portion of the building, and the point of sight taken from a point from which the building can be seen when erected and at the level of ordinary sight

to. Each drawing and the accompanying memorandum is to be distinguished by a motto or cypher, and no handwriting of any sort is to be put upon either. Any of the competitors way send in a second set of drawings embodying a different plan or design if he desires to do so. In this case it must be under a different motto. No competitor is to use any motto or device which he has used on any previous occasion.

11.	A sealed envelope bearing the same motto or device and containing the address of the author is to be sent to the                     

12.	The, drawings are not to be framed, g1azed or even mounted on cardboard, but are to be sent flat in a portfolio, and are to he addressed to                who will hand them to the experts in the same condition in which they are received by him with seal unbroken.

13.	The experts will carefully examine all the designs sent in and place the best four in order of merit. They will also make a report on the designs sent in, but especially giving their reasons for placing the four best designs in thc positions assigned to them. A copy of this report will be sent to each competitor.

14. The Committee will commission the author of the design placed first, at the regular commission, to carry out the work, provided the experts decide in consultation with them that the work may he safely entrusted to him. If the experts decide that it would not be advisable to entrust the work to the author of the design placed first, the Committee will insist that some architect in whom they have, confidence shall be associated with him as consulting architect,

The author of the design placed second will receive of 1the author of the design placed third of 1and the author of the design placed fourth 1-5 of 1

15. All designs will be returned to the competitors at the expense. of the Building Committee as soon as the experts have made their report. No design will be shown to any competitor nor to any other party without the. consent of the author. Nor shall anything shown in any of the rejected designs or otherwise suggested by an unsuccessful competitor, which is original as to this competition be adopted and made use of in the building without the consent of the author and proper remuneration being made him, the amount thereof to be agreed upon between him and the Committee and in case of disagreement it is to be referred to the decision of the experts whose decision shall be final not only in regard to the amount to be paid, but also in regard to the existence of any such claim.

16 Any information which the Committee or any member of the Committee or their professional adviser may find proper to communicate to any of the competitors in answer to questions or suggestions, will be made in print and will be simultaneously communicated to all the rest. Such questions or suggestions must be made on or before the 15th day of                        189 and must be sent to                

Mr. Curry proposed that the "Conditions" having been carried in the Association, consisting of all men claiming to bc architects' in the province, (certainly with very few outside of it), should bind its members not to compete under other conditions' than those of the Association.

It was then moved by Mr. Curry, seconded by Mr. Joseph W. Power, "That this convention having approved of the conditions of Competition, request every member of the Association to refrain from entering any advertised competition except those conducted under the conditions adopted by the Association."

Mr. Burke said there might be some difficulty in making this a hard and fast rule. Take the case of a School Board in the country There are two young men in the town practicing.

