	<doctype type="text">22	THE	AND	BUILDER	February 1892



<article title="How to Estimate" author="Hudson, W.H.">HOW TO ESTIMATE.

By W. H. HUDSON.



Following is a portion of the specification and bills of quantities accompanying the drawings of <building>Public School on Gladstone Avenue, Toronto</building>, appearing in this number. The balance of specification and quantities will be printed in next issue.

 EXCAVATION. &C.

Do all excavation required for the basement and foundation of building to the dimensions shown and figured on the drawings, making the same 12" clear of the outside (if footings of all outside walls The excavation for basement and foundation walls, &c. , to be taken out to the depth required, and level in all directions for footings and floor. The spaces outside of the outer walls to be kept cicar of earth until the masonry has been properly pointed up and inspected and passed by the architects. The spaces around the outside of walls when directed by the architects are to be filled in with earth and the same well rammed and consolidated. The surface of ground around the building is to be cut and filled to the grade lines laid down by the architects, and in all cases so as to give a fall of at least ins. in every 12 ft. outwards. The whole surface of lot as shown per block plan is to be cut and filled and graded to an uniform grade throughout, the earth arising from the excavations and cuttings being used for that purpose, so far as may be required. and the surplus earth (if any) carted from the premises.

DRAINAGE.

Provide and lay down all drainage as shown by the foundation plan, and in the most thorough arid workmanlike manner, complete in all respects. Provide for and pay for 9 in. sewer connection from street sewer to street line. Provide and lay down in. drain from point shown on plan to sewer connection, and provide and lay down 4 in. and 6 in. drains from the points shown on plans connecting with the 9 in. main drain, and with all proper Ys, bends, elbows and junctions and traps, &c. , complete. Provide and lay down 3 X 4 m. common or weeping tile drains under basement floor, and connect same to the leading drain from basement. The drains are to bc laid with best quality of American salt-glazed or Scotch vitrified drain piping, with socket joints connected with Portland cement, and to be laid with an uniform and sufficient fall, in no case less than 1/4 in. per foot run of pipe Care must be taken that every pipe is firmly bedded and packed so as to prevent settlement after the grade is fixed. The drains from water leaders are to turn up within 2 ft. of the surface to receive the same. and to be firmly packed in position and the mouth covered until the conductor pipes from roof are connected. Weeping drains are to he carefully laid in trenches prepared for same, and when laid to be packed around with fine broken brick and coarse gravel, and to have all connections made in the most careful and thorough manner. No drain is to be covered up until inspected and approved by the architects.

MASONRY.

The stone for footing courses and rubble masonry is to be of best quality of large sized Lake and Hurtiher stone in about equal quantities, and the . coursing above grade lines to be built with Credit Valley grey stone. the mortar is to be composed of the very best quality of fresh burnt stone lime and clean coarse sharp grit sand in the proportion of 2 1/2 parts of sand to one of lime, mixed with a proper quantity of clean water, and all well and thoroughly incorporated and tempered together No soft or  , loamy sand will he allowed in the work. Lay the footing courses as shown and figured on sections with selected large lake stone thoroughly bonded and bedded firmly in mortar. Build up the foundation walls in good rubble masonry from top of footings to level of basement ceiling, to be 16 in. in thickness, built to a line on both sides and in 15 in. courses, in height corresponding to five courses of brickwork, and so as to bond with the inside brick lining to same as shown per plans and sections. The masonry is to be thoroughly bedded and bonded, each and every stone laid on its natural lied and " through-bonds " built in every 5 ft. on each course The masonry is to lie built plumb square anti true, on both sides of every wall, and to a fair face arid to he thoroughly flushed in at all beds and joints, arid neatly pointed with the trowel The outside face of all outside walls is to be plastered with a heavy coat of ' cement mortar composed of one part of best Portland cement to two parts of coarse and clean grit sand, properly tempered with water and laid on fresh as required, and not less than one-half inch in thickness, laid on evenly. The foundation walls above grade One will be faced with Credit Valley grey coursing of selected large stones, built in random coursed work in four courses of one foot each for the large blocks and the random work made up in from two to three stones. Each and every stone to have picked beds and joints, and to have a bed of not less than once and a half its vertical height. Every stone in the coursed work to have a clean and fresh rock face, free from all stains, flaws and other defects, to be hammer dressed to reveals of all windows, doors and other openings in same, and to have an inch margin draft of tooled work on all corners. The coursed work is to be painted with cement mortar composed of Portland cement, Smith's ashes and lampblack, and each and every joint to he well cut and weathered and finished in very best manner. The foundations to two large vent and smoke stacks are to be laid with Dimension stone in two courses of eight inches in thick ness, each properly bedded in mortar and thoroughly bonded, no stone being less than 4 square feet Provide and lay two footing courses of 6 in. thickness under all internal brick partition walls, and one thickness of same under the brickwork of all brick-setting" to heating apparatus and flues, as shown per plans, all built in the most substantial manner. Also lay one course of similar footings under the outside area entrance ways and steps, &c., all complete and as above described. The whole of the masonry is to be built with thc best of materials called for, and in the most substantial and workmanlike manner, complete in all respects.

CARPENTER AND JOINER WORK.

All the wood work used throughout the building, play sheds arid fencing (except otherwise specified) is to be of the best quality and description of white pine, free from sap, shakes, dead, loose and large knots, wane and other defects, and to hold to the dimension specified and figured on drawings, and to be well seasoned. Immediately the contract is awarded, the contractor will proceed to and procure all joisting and other dimension stuff, and have same on the ground ready prepared for the building as the works progress. In same manner all door and window frames are to be prepared in proper time and made ready for setting in the work as the same progresses. Ali window sash to he made and fitted at same time as frames are made, and then delivered to the glazier at his shop for glazing, who at the proper time will deliver the same at the building ready for carpenter to hang. All doors are to be got out loosely knocked together and stacked away in a drying house until required in the building, when they are to be properly cramped up, wedged and glued, fitted and hung to all in best manner. All doors, sash wainscoting, stairs, and other finished stuff throughout the building, including all door and window frames, etc., is to be of the best quality and description of clear and thoroughly kiln-dried pine, all well cleaned up after passing through the machines, and when

fitted, to be left clean and in thoroughly good order to receive the painting. Ground and first floor joists to be 14" x 2" set i6" centres, the corridor and attic joists to bC 12" X 2" set 16" centres. Provide and fix three sets of chain joists to the floors of the four upper class rooms (12 in all) built of two 14" x 2" joists with 1 1/8" packing piece between, all well spiked together and with 1 1/8" iron strainingrod, 6"x8"x1/3" end plates, an(1 well threaded nuts and washers complete. These joists to be bolted together with 3/4" iron screw holts, with nuts and washers, 12 bolts to each chain joist. Trim for stair wells, ventilating stacks and hot air flue, with double 14" and 12" X 2" joists double tusk frames and spiked together, and for stairwells to be strengthened at the corner with 2 in. x in. stirrup pins, Provide and fix wrought iron anchors to ends of chain joists, also to attic joists directly over the saitie, to be 2 in. x in. x 3 ft. in length turned up 6 in at one end and built into brickwork and the other end bolted to joists with two X in. screw bolts. There will be 48 of these anchors required. Trim the attic joists for nianhoe in same over the ceiling of teachers room, and provide and fix 2 in. frame in same 26 in. x 30 in. rebated and fitted with framed and panelled door, hinged on top with 4 in. butts and secured with 1/2 iron stay-hook ft long. Provide neat dressed step ladder of 1 1/2 in. strings arid 2 1/4 in. steps strongly made for access to above manhole. The joists throughout to be laid level for floors and ceiling and to have not less than 4 in. bearing on walls and well spiked to bond timber in wall. The basement and grouted floor ceilings will be counter ceiled with 2 in. x 3 in. and 2 in. X 2 in. strapping, set 16 in. centres and properly levelled for ceilings of same and well spiked to under side of joists with in. spike to each joist in the most secure manner. Provide arid fix 4 in. x 2 1/2 in. well seasoned bond timbers to receive floor joists. also across under all window openings and for basement do. to be dressed on the face and set fair with the brickwork, Provide and set 6 in. x 8 in. well seasoned pine lintels to all windows and door openings in outer walls except to basement windows which will have double lintel same size dressed on the under face and soffet. The doors in partition walls will have double 6 in. x 6 in. lintels and in basement to be 6 in. x 6 in. and 6 in. x 8 in. laid together and dressed on the face and soffit to finish fair with face of brickwork. Provide and set 2 1/2 x well seasoned bond strip to all outer walls every 6th course in height for Strapping and grounds also provide and build in 9 in. x 14 in. x 3 in. well seasoned jamb blocks to all door openings, 8 to each opening. Provide and set well seasoned wood bricks of in. stuff to all window openings except basement. Provide and strap all outer walls except in basement with 2 X 2 1/2 in. well seasoned pine strapping set 16 in. centres and well spiked to bond strips in walls, the strapping to be set true and plumb to line on the face to receive the lathing. The siding door between the two upper class rooms to have a to in, x 14 in. well seasoned and dressed pine lintel over same and trussed on top with 4 in. x 8 in. Queen truss with inch foot and suspension rods, with nuts and washers, etc ., all complete. Pro-vide and set 3 in. x 12 n. solid and moulded door frames to the front and rear entrance with 3 in. oak weathered silt rebated and fitted for 2 3/8 in. thick raised panelled and bolection moulded doors. The rear entrance ground floor door to have 4 X 6 in. moulded transom bar and 2 3/8 in. moulded transom csoh, basement entrance doors to have upper half fitted for glass as shown per elevation with t in. sash base. The inside doors to front porches to be 2 1/8 thick and as described for the front entrance doors. Provide and 1 X 2 1/2 in. x 15 in. solid and moulded door jambs with moulded transoms and transom sash, and in. thick panelled and solid moulded doors complete. The front entrance doors to be 4 ft. x 8 ft. in 6 panels, hinged with three 8 in. square wrot. iron black japanned butts and fastened with heavy and neat forged iron latches with twisted ring shambles bolted on an(l secured with 6 in. carpenter's locks, and held open with in. round iron hook and staple all complete (For sample of above latches, see those on Ryerson and Given St. schools. ) The ground floor rear entrance door will be same size and hinged and fastened as above described. Basement entrance doors to be 6 ft. 8 in. x 3 ft. 6 each and 2 1/8 in. thick, panelled and moulded in the solid on stile and rails, and fitted for glass, to be hinged with two 6 in. wrought iron butts and fastened with 6 in. carpenter's lock with 2 1/2 in. black japanned or brass knobs, and to have hold back hooks as described for front doors. All class room doors to le 7 ft. 6 in. x 3 ft. in. x 1 3/4 in. thick, six panelled and moulded in the solid on stile and rails, to be hinged with 6 in. square wrot. iron black japanned butts and fastened with heavy mortice locks (Griffiths gravity locks per sample in office) and fitted with 2 1/2 in. finished brass knobs complete. These doors will have a in. moulded transom sash over sane fitted with two lights of glass 18 in. x 24 in. , to be hung on vertical centre pin fitting and secured with a steel spring catch, and to be fitted with a counter sunk finger plate. Provide and fix 2 3/8 thick framed and panelled sliding door between closet rooms, as shown per drawings to be formed in 12 panels having 8 in. wide outside stiles, 6 in. wide intermediate .. stile 8 in. wide top and middle rails and 12 in. wide bottom rail; the three centre vertical stiles are to be 1 1/2 in. thick, only the centre panels being counter sunk as one large panel 15 ft. x 3 ft. 6 in. high to receive the blackboard, and when same are set to be held in by small hardwood stop in. thick, set flush with the stile and rail, and fastened with round head screws. This sliding door to have in. half round metal rail screwed to floor and extending across the corridor and to be fitted with two best pattern 6 in. turned sliding door wheels with turned steel axle and meetings, and screwed and counter sunk into bottom rail all complete. Provide and fix 2 n. jambs to sliding door  and to sliding door slit in corridor, well moulded, etc., and provide and fix 2 in. X 6 in. moulded pine boxing to one side of sliding door opening to side and head of same. The doors into privy closet rooms in basement also into coal rooms and furnace rooms, six in number, will have 6 in. x3 in. chamfered and rebated frames and 2 in. oak sills, fitted with 4 in. transonic bars and 1 3/4 in. transomsash, to have 1 3/4 in.x3 ft., 6 ft.8 in. doors hinged with in. wrot iron black japanned butts and fastened with 6 in. x 4 in. carpenters locks and 2 1/2 in. brass knobs, same as to class room doors. The two lunch rooms in basement will not have any door frames or doors. Provide aril fix 2 in. door frames and 1 1/8 matched and elated doors ft. x 2 ft. n. to foul air chamber in privy rooms, also similar frames and doors to ventilating stacks, frames to be 6 in. x 2 in. chamfered. Also provide similar frames and doors to upper part of ventilating stacks above attic floor, and provide and hang same with 10 in. T binge, and fasten with 6 in. barred bolts. Provide and fix 6 in. x 3 in. solid and chamfered frames and 1 3/4 moulded sash to all basement windows, the sash to be hinged on top with in. butts and fastened with 6 in. barrel bolts, two to each sash, and to have stout pulley cord, and plumb bob balance weight fastened to ceiling to open and shut same. Provide and fix borrowed light frame 8 in. x 3 in. with in. vertical iron bars 4 in. apart in same to corridors in basement where shown on plans, four in number complete, to be 3 ft. 6 in. and 4 ft. Provide and fix boxed frames to all class rooms and corridor windows, grooved and toqued together with in. heads and sills and fitted with double hung I 3/4 in. moulded sash fitted for 6 lights, in. X 24 in. to each sash or 12 lights to each window. The corridor windows to have 18 X 24 glass. All the above mentioned sashes to be double hung with best Silver Lake braided cot ton sash line, iron weights 2 1/2 in. solid axle turned pulleys, and each sash to have two metal lifts and one metal counter sunk pull down fitting, and one good heavy metal sash lock. Provide eight brass pull down hooks, fitted to

