<doctype type="text">February, 1892	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	23



light ash poles, one for each class room complete Provide large half-circle window frame of 6 in. X in. stuff, with 4 in. X 4 in. million bars, and 1 3/4 moulded sash to gable window with inside stop, etc., complete. Also similar circular frames to porch and rear gable windows, the former to have inside inch bead planted around the rural. Provide and construct the roof to building and porches, etc., as shown per elevations and sections. The main roof is to have 12 in. X 3 in. wall plates, 8 in. X 2 in. rafters, io in. x 2 in. hip rafters, and double 10 in. X 2 in. valley rafters well spiked together with 4 in spikes. The rafters will lie i8 in. centres, notched down on in wall plate and ridge and deck plates and well spiked to same with 4 in. spikes. The deck roof to be supported with framed Bents, ' as per sections 12 in. x 6 in. X 4 ft. templates bedded on top of corridor walls and upon same the framed Bents ' to rest, having 8 in. x 8 in. sill and head piece, 8 in. x 8 in. posts. 6 in. x 6 in. streets, and 6 in. 8 in. purlins, also 8 in x

2 in. cross ties, the latter spiked to side of posts and common rafters with  in. spikes, the common rafter being doubled opposite each Bent,' the bents also to be braced with 6 in. x in. braces, and to leave 8 in. x 8 in. plates extending along from bent to bent and bolted and spiked to same with 3/4 in. iron bolts and in. spikes, to receive the ends of rafters. These

Bents ' are to be morticed and tenoned and pinned and spiked together in the most substantial manner, and where necessary, the bead pieces to extend out tar enough beyond the post to give support to valley and hip rafters. The roof to be covered with good sound and seasoned grooved and tongued flooring in. thick all well nailed, and breaking joints every 6th board, the' flooring to be 6 in wide and laid close at joints, and to be free from large, loose and dLad knots Trim and line the ends of rafters to receive the roof cornice, and provide arid put 2/8 in. faced to same, and in. x 10 in. matched soffit lining and 6 in moulded bed moulding and 6 in. crown moulding and 1 1/2 in. core moulding under crown and gutter moulding of 9,000 sound and well seasoned luff, all well dressed fitted and nailed and left in first-class order fur painter Provide and fix ride pieces of in. and 6 in. stuff and 3 in round and rebated ridge rolls all well spiked on and all ilressed for punting, also provide and fix in. thick by in. slate grounds, bevelled tilting pieces to vallies and eaves as may be required by slater. Construct gables as shown, with moulded cornice to same, also gablets at open of main roof, next to ventilating stacks, with moulded cornice, etc., complete. Provide and construct roof to belfry as shown, to have 6 in. x 3 in. plate and 6 in. x 2 in. rafters, and 7/8 in. grooved and tongued boarding, and shaped brackets to receive the galvanized iron moulded cornice, all well spiked together, and fitted and secured to brickwork. Provide and construct stair from ground to first floor, as shown per drawing, to have 2 1/4 in. thick moulded strings and three 6 in. x 4 in. carriage pieces. Steps of 1 1/8 in. pine risers and in. oak treads housed at ends into well and wall strings and well wedged and glued, etc., and to be well blocked to carriage pieces. The rise of tops to be 6 1/2 inches and treads 10 1/2 in. with in. fall or pitch to latter, and to have rounded and moulded risings. The balustrading at side of stairs to consist of A in. by alternate 3 and 4 1/2 in. grooved and tonued and bevel jointed sheeting nailed to the side oh well string and capped with a 6 in. x in. oval backed oak hand rail ploughed out to receive the ends of sheeting and to have quarter round moulding planted along under same. The balustrading around the well at top of stairs to be constructed in same manner, the sheeting to be nailed to side of well trimmer joists and finished on the inside and at ceiling line with 7/8 in. ogee moulded plinth, also to floor line in same manner and to correspond with the wall wainscoting, with quarter round moulded shoe strip, etc., alt well nailed. Construct rest-landing to stairs as shown per plaits, with 10 in. x 2 in. joists built into corridor wall and floored with 7/8 in. oak flooring with 1 3/8 in. moulded nosing of same corresponding to ti-cad of stairs. Post 6 in. x 6 in. chamfered on angles to be placed to support the landing. extending floor up to same. Enclose the spandril of stairs with 7/8 in. sheeting nailed to side of stri rig and to 2 in. x 4 in. floor clete, and to have 7/8 in. ogee moulded hose with shoe strip same as to balustrading, and to have moulded capping same as tri wainscotting all complete. Stair newels to be of oak 8 in. square and turned, with turned mitre cap to same. The basement stairs to be constructed, as shown per drawings and as described for ma in stairs, with sheeted balustrading and newel posts in same manner all complete Provide and construct steps to front and rear entrances, as shown per drawings to have 2 1/2 strings and 4 in. carriage pieces, in. oak risers and 2 in. x 2 in. slatted treads of oak laid with in. space between, and well spiked and screwed down, the nails and screws to be counter sunk 3 - 16 of an inch. The platforms to front steps to lie constructed with oak slats in same manner and to have 8 in. x 2 in. bearers under same built into main and parapet walls. Build oak coping to parapets iif front steps with 2 1/2 in, x 12 in. oak plank. chainfered on edges and spiked to 2 in. pine plank bolted down to brick parapet with in. bolts, as called for in bricklayer's specification, and plank on 3 in. moulding of oak tinder oak coping Platform to rear entrance steps to be built of 2 in. x 2 in. oak plank, groiived and tongued together, resting on bond timber built into main wall and at outer end on 6 in. x 8 in. timber built into parapet walls of entrance steps, to be neatly dressed antI rounded on the nosing, and to have a fall outwards of one inch. The i-ear entrance steps rip to ground floor level and down into basement will be constructed in same manner as described for front entrance steps. The coping will consist of 9 in. x 3 in. stuff chamfered ott edges and bolted down to parapet walls as provided in. bricklayers specifications the bolt nuts to be counter sunk and a 2 1/2 in. round oak roll planted on top of sanie as shown per marginal diagrams. The walls at side of basement area steps to have pine coping 14 in. x 3 in. dressed on 101) and face and chamfered on edge, and to be coal tarred on the under sine and outer edge and bolted down by in. anchor bolts provided and built in by bricklayer. Provide and construct roof over rear anti basement entrance steps, to have 6 in. x 6 in. dressed and chamfered posts tenoned into and spiked to parapet coping and to have 6 in. x 6 in. plates and cross bearers, and covered with in. x 4 in. grooved and toqued sheeting laid double on 6 in. x 2 in. dressed rafters with 7/8 in. facia and crown moulding and fillet on sides and bottom. The posts are to lie braced with 6 in. x 4 in. chamfered braces as shown per elevations, etc. The basement entrance to be covered with double A' inn. x 4 in. stuff resting on parapet coping and wall clete and battened on top with 2 in. x 3/4 in. moulded battens, the tipper steps roof to lie battened in same manner All the stuft for above mentioned roof to he of good, sound, clean and well seasoned pine, and all left in good order for the painter, complete in all respects. Provide and fix wainscotting to all closed rooms and corridors (except in basement), to be 3 in. x 6 in. in height with moulded capping arid 7/8 in. x 8 in. moulded plinth and in. moulded shoe strip, the wainscotting lobe composed of alternate 2 1/2 and 4 in x 7/8 grooved and tongued and jointed sheeting of clear, seasoned kiln-dried stuff, put together and blind nailed in most substantial manner. Provide and fix openings for exhaust ventilators in the base of wainscotting under all windows inn class rooms, and two extra, making six in each class room and provide and fix screens of galv. wire cloth to same with neat moulded frame around each. and provide and connect same down to the span formed by the counter ceiling. Provide and fix 7/8 in. jamb lining and soffit to all windows except in basement also 1 3/8 in. stools finished same level and forming part of wainscotting capping, the lining to be tongued

into frames antI provided with A x 12 in' ventilating boards cut in between and held by neat moulded cletes. Provide and fix 6 in. x 1 3/8 in. well seasoned and kiln-dried clear pine architraves to all windows and doors except in basement all nailed to A in. x 3 in. grounds well nailed to stall strips, etc., in walls Provide and lay 7/8 in. x so in. thickness, sound and seasoned common flooring ground and first floor throughout all well nailed down to every joist will) two 3 in. nails, and after all plastering and trimmings are on and the building cleaned up, lay down best quality of 7/8 in. x 3 in. thoroughly kiln-dried white maple flooring, grooved and tongued arid blind nailed arid finished up smooth and close jointed throughout, and have the same cleat) 'annul inn thorough order for oiling Put 1 3/8 oak nosing boards to all well holes and properly fit and scribe to all walls and other parts. Lbs. carpenter will lock up each room as the floors are laid and until the painter is ready to oil the floors. Construct teacher's platforms at end of each) class moon, as shown to be 6 7/8 high laid on 6 in. x 2 in. bearers, 18 in. centres, and floored with A in. x 3 in. maple flooring with 1 1/8 in. nosing to same, and A inn. pine riser rounded and moulded complete. Provide and fit up privy closets in basement as shown per basement plans and details. The floor to lie laid with 6 in. x a in. bearers laid upon the finished cement floor, 18 in. centres, and floored with 7/8 in. x 3 in. maple flooring, same as other floor's annul with 1 in. nosing to same. The seats to have 7/8 x 4 in. grooved arid tongued sheeting for risers well nailed to trimmer bearer, and to have 1 1/4 quarter round planted in angle next to floor, and  inn. x 3 in. clete along the toll under seat. The seats to hue made out of 1 3/8 in. stuff, with rounded nosing annul perforated with graduated seat holes,

6 in. x 9 ti. to 7 in. x tr in. as shall lie directed Enclose the closets with  in. x inn, grooved and tongued matched sheeting 6 ft. 6 in. high with 2 in. x 3 inn, capping chamfered on edges and ploughed to receive the ends of sheeting, also floor cletes in same manner. The doors to have in. x 3 in. chamfered posts. rebated for 1 3/8 doors but without doors. Provide and fit tip screen along the front of each range of closets annul urinal as shown per plans and as described for privy enclosure, and in both eases extend the pours up to the ceiling and well spike and tenon the same into a 2 in. x 3 in. ceiling clete planted on to receive tine same The seals are to have

1 1/8 flaps or covers to the holes with a in. x 1 1/8 cletes tenoned on to same and to be hinged with 6 itt. wrot. '1' hinges put on with screws, Provide and fix 1 ,1/4 in. x 15 in. dressed board at back of urinal. Provide and fix grounds boards and easing to plumber's piping, arid all cutting and notch-trig for same in the best and most substantial manner arid as shall be direct ed. All woodwork for the above closets and screens to lie of best seasoned stuff. The carpenter will provide and set all centres for bricklayer and provide and stay all frames and ease in all cut stone work when necessary and as may be decided by the architect. The carpenter will attend on other trades and as may be necessary for the proper carrying out of the works. The core of the building will rest with the carpenter who will provide all necessary temporary doors and fasteners to same, and will provide keys for the other trades to gaits access to the building at all proper working hours, arid will see that the building is properly closed in at nights and during Sundays. Provide and fix 1 3/4 in. ruin hand rail at each side of main stairs made of 1 3/4 A ins. gaspiping secured to the side of stairway with wrot. iron brackets and finished to newels with iron socket flanges screwed on. These iron rails to be the same as those in Given St. and Ryerson schools. Provide and fix black japanned metal clothes hooks in each class room screwed with four 3/4 in. screws in the wainscotting and to be per sample in our office. There will be sixty of these hooks in each class room and 12 in teacher's room at end of corridor, and eight elsewhere directed by the architect making 500 inn all. Provide and fit up in each class room, and where recess in walls will lie left for same, small cupboards 30 in. wide x 36 inn, high and 9 in. deep, to have 1 1/8 in. side annul front antI

1/8 iii. flock panelled doors in two boxes hinged with 3 in. butts and fastened with good cupboard lock and to have metal knobs 1 3/3 in. moulded stool and moulded cornice and to project about 4 inn, from face of plaster work on walls. These cupboards will have three A inn, shelves to same urn neat moulded clete.

	(To be Continued	in March Number.) 



<article title="Bill of quantities" author="">BILL OF QUANTITIES.



EXCAVAJION AND DRAINAGE

$ C.

1340 cubic yards of excavation, includes filling anti ramming, etc., complete	-	-	-	-

Cutting and grading around the building, complete -Cutting, filling and grading the lot to uniform grade

throughout, and carting away surplus earth - -Provide 9 in. sewer connection from street sewer to

street line, at per lineal yard, complete - -Provide 9 in. continuation drain from sewer connections

to point shown on plan, at per lineal yard -

58 lineal yards of 6 in. vitrified tile drains, includes Y's, bends, elbows, junctions and traps, etc., complete

102	lineal yards of 4 in. vitrified tile drains, includes Y's, bends, elbows, junctions amid traps, etc , complete

80	2/3 lineal yards of 3 in. x 4 in. weeping drain, includes packing with broken brick and coarse gravel, complete	- -	- -	-

NOTE.—Excavations are measured "cube," that is, length, breadth and depth, thus: 54 ft. 9 in. x 22 ft. 6 in. x 5 ft. 6 in., equal to 6775 ft. 4 in., divided by 27, the number of feet in a cubic yard, gives 251 cubic yards, less (1 ft. 8 in). Tile drains are measured lineal, that is, running measure, as indicated in above items.

MASONRY.



93 1/2 toise masonry (86 ft. cube English measure) in foundation walls, pointed in cement mortar outside,

	complete	-	-	- -	-

2 toise masonry in vent, foundation, (Dimension stone)

995 supl. ft. of Credit Valley stone, rndom coursed work above surface ; inch draft and hammered dressed reveals pointed in cement, complete -

NOTE.—Masonry is measured cube, and the totals of dimensions added together, divided by 86, the number tf cubic feet in a toise. The French measure per toise being 6 ft. x6 ft. x 2 ft., equivalent to 6 ft. 4 1/2 in. x 6 ft. 4 1/2 in. x 2 ft. 1/2 in. English measure, the French foot being 34 of an inch longer than one foot English.

