<doctype type="text">18THE C ANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

February, 1892



the name of <person>Mr. Hutchison</person>, met with a most cordial reception. Mr. Hutchison, upon rising to reply, said it gave him a great

deal of pleasure to be present representing the Association in the Province of Quebec. He would have preferred had thc president or some of the vice-presidents been present, but it had not been convenient for them to do so. lie had been favored with prior invitations to attend the annual banquet of the Ontario Association, but had never been able to avail himself of the pleasure of a visit until the present occasion. He thanked the Association for the very hearty manner in which they had drunk the toast to the Quebec Association, and desired to reiterate the sentiment expressed that the good feeling which at present exists between these two Associations may always continue. In Quebec, before the formation of the Association, their experience had been that the architects were like the Ishmaelites of old their hand was against every man, and every man's hand was against them. It the formation of an Association had done no other good, it had certainly tended to remove that feeling, and was bringing the members of the profession more into contact one with another, so that they were finding that they have many things in common. No doubt the experience of thc members of the profession in Ontario is very much the same. The Association has had the effect of bringing the architects in the different cities into much closer fellowship than existed before, and it is hoped that that effect will increase. The speaker said that the time may come when instead of having two Associations, there shall be an amalgamated Association which will embrace the whole Dominion, with the different provinces having their own local associations for the management of local affairs. It might be years before this could be accomplished, but he for one would do his utmost to bring about that happy consummation, and he hoped that the movement would be seconded by the profession in Ontario and Quebec. The speaker said that the first time he received an invitation to the annual banquet, while not able to attend, he wrote a lengthy letter to the Secretary expressing his hope that the Ontario profession would not stop at the formation of mere Provincial Associations, but should always aim at forming a Dominion Association. The Ontario Association being the oldest and the largest, thc Quebec Association would look to it for guidance and direction in many affairs. It was largely through the fact of thc profession in Ontario having obtained a charter from their Provincial Government that the. Quebec architects were enabled to get a similar one passed there, and it was likely that whatever was obtained by the profession in Ontario would be obtained from thc Legislature in Quebec. The speaker expressed his strong desire that everything should be done to foster good fellowship between the two Associations, and that when the Quebec Association meets in its annual gathering in October (which was a very pleasant time of the year for a pleasure trip) some of the members of the Ontario Association might be seen down there to give a cheery word and help forward the work. While thc older members of the profession may not gain any great benefit from the formation of these Associations, the speaker thought that those who helped in the formation of the Associations had laid such good, deep and strong foundations for the future that the rising generation of architects will certainly be brought into a better position than was occupied by the seniors. He was glad to learn that the Ontario Association had been so far helped by the Government founding the Chair of Architecture in connection with the School of Practical Science. While the Quebec Association might not be able to look for any similar help from the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, they had great hopes that before very long they would have a Chair of Architecture established in connection with the Science Department of McGill College, which, through the liberality of two or three citizens of Montreal, has been put on the very best basis for a science education. During the past two years very large and extensive buildings had been erected especially for that department, so that now they were in a position to give a thorough scientific education. If to that they could add the art education necessary to complete the education of an architect, he looked forward to the young generation of architects being fully equipped by proper training and education to carry out the work. He did not know what kind of architects the training schools might turn out, but had no doubt they would lay a proper foundation so that a young man might be able to apply himself to any one of the three classes of work—business, constructive or artistic—or, if he had the genius, he might apply himself to all three Tic looked forward with great hopes to the rising generation of architects taking a higher and better position than the seniors have done. (Applause.)

Mr. Gordon, rising to propose the toast to " The Government of Canada," said he desired to propose a toast in which all would heartily join, more especially as it was coupled with thc name of one whom all rejoiced to see present that evening. He rejoiced in being permitted thc honor of giving the toast of our Government, and more particularly joining with it the name of Mr. Coatsworth, member for East Toronto. (Applause). All were glad that our Government was, to a limited extent, a paternal Government. While the Local Legislature had given the Association incorporation, and the aim of the local Associations should be to obtain Dominion organization, the Association could (1 rejoice that they had such staunch friends as Mr. Coatsworth and the other representatives of this city, and represent

tatives from other cities who have expressed their willingness and desire to do all in their power to establish the architectural profession on a higher basis. Perhaps the only thing they could grumble at was that the Government had been a little too good to them and given them a little too much title, more than they anticipated in giving the Association a " "Registered" title. Titles generally carry some privileges with them as the Ontario Legislature had given the Association this title, they thought thc Dominion Government should give something to go along with thc title that is, a little protection— not exceptional protection. They did not want class legislation. The profession in this country was ready to stand upon the same footing as ordinary citizens in that respect, but certainly they ought to have the same protection as other (:citizens in the pursuit of their calling, and the laws on the Statute book should be carried out an(I not set aside to the detriment of their profession. The speaker referred to the customs duties in reference to taxing of plans and other professional matters coming into Canada, and claimed that thc way the customs duties are now levied on plans, drawings, tracings, &c., for many important buildings was a farce. While he held that any private individual has a right to employ whoever he likes, he also contended that no public corporation, and more especially a government, had any right to go outside of its own country for that which can be as well fulfilled by those who are its own citizens and are helping to support it and should have the first claim and even the preference. As possibly Mr. Coatsworth might be called upon in his official capacity, along with the other representatives of the people, to see that this matter of thc customs duty is properly carried out, it might be as well that some facts should be in proper shape for both the Government and its supporters to act upon. Many thousands of dollars are lost annually to the Government through lack of system and understanding in the appraising of plans. A man can get plans from the other side for a very important building, costing perhaps $100,000 and tracings and copies can be sent from his office and appraised at a mere nominal sum. The speaker also referred to the subject of a Dominion Association. The Provincial Associations can approach the Government and urge upon them the necessary procedure with regard to the customs duties and other matters affecting the profession at large; but if there existed a Dominion Association, with these Provincial Associations in some way in affiliation, no doubt the position of the profession would be strengthened, and they could go before the Dominion Government in a much more representative capacity and would he able to voice the opinion of the profession from one end of the country to the other. (Applause). The architectural profession perhaps comes more closely into contact with the general public to-day than any other profession - certainly conduces very largely to the comfort and prosperity of the people—and as such should receive a great deal of attention from the Government. In the future, and that before Utopia will be reached, there would he a Department of Architecture in the Government.

Mr. <person>Emerson Coatsworth</person>, M. P., in responding congratulated the Association upon its standing, assuring them that as a professional man lie sympathized with their desire to uplift their profession, not only in the Province of Ontario, but in the whole Dominion and stated his belief that the time was coming when the professions would be elevated to a standard of professional education so high that no inferior man would bc able to hold any place with others in the professions, and no outside element would he able to compete with professional men in their own country. (Hear, hear.) He sympathized very strongly with the expressions he had heard in reference to the competition which the Association had to meet, and which to his mind was a somewhat unfair competition. It was his opinion that just as good work, and possibly better work, could be had for less money from Ontario architects than was being got at the present time from foreign architects. As to the suggestions made in regard to duties, it was only fair that reasonable protection should be afforded to architects. Industries of various kinds were protected in the Dominion, and he saw no reason why the industry of the architect should not be protected as well as the industry of the mechanic ; and, as he had already promised privately to one or two gentlemen that evening, so far as he personally was concerned, he was prepared to use his influence on behalf of the architects of the Province of Ontario in order that they might 1)e able to compete with others outside on favorable and satisfactory terms, being sure it would result in just as good work, and probably better, with less cost, and would also keep the money in our own country. (Applause.) The speaker congratulated the Association on thc progress which had been made in the very few years since organization. It spoke well for the genius, industry and talent in the profession that so much could be accomplished in such a short time, and that there had sprung up among the members of the profession in Ontario and Quebec such an esprit de corps which leads on to greater heights, as it does all men who have that feeling among them of generous rivalry, which prompts them to be the best they can in their own sphere. Tie believed there was as much science in architecture as there was in law or in medicine, and that, therefore, the architectural profession should stand, as far as tights and privileges were concerned, as they (10 in intelligence, integrity and all other good qualities, with the other professions. When the time came that the profession was ready to form a Dominion

