<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

February, 1892



Each of them have friends on the Board a majority cannot be got on the Board to decide on the architect, and a competition is decided on then if these gentlemen were honorable members of this body it would be impossible to arrange a competition, as they would be ruled out from competing. He brought this point up for the purpose of doing away with any misapprehension in the minds of any of the members s.

<person>Mr. Curry </person>held that such a case as the one instanced by <person>Mr.

Burke </person>would not be influenced by the proposed action of the

Association. It would not interfere with a proprietor who was

prepared to build going to four architects and saying I will give

$100 apiece it you will prepare competitive drawings.

The President, putting the motion to the meeting, declared it carried unanimously.

Before proceeding with the discussion of the subject of Indentures of Apprentices, Mr. Curry moved ''That the Council is hereby instructed by the Association to get the word Registered" struck out of the Ontario Architects Act.' Section 25 of the Act says that members of the Association shall be entitled to use the word " Registered Architect," and that no other party shall use the term. Nearly every architect in the Province of Ontario was entitled to use the title, so that there were practical)' none who could claim to be architects outside of the Association, and if the word " Registered " was struck out and the members of the Association given the privilege of using the title " Architect," no injury would be done to any one and the members s of the Association would he in a very much better position. If the Association was to proceed with the instruction of students, hold examinations and do certain work, they should have some equivalent for that work. All such work might be done for love of the profession, but at the same time the public is receiving a much greater benefit than the members of the Association it is really the public who are going to receive the principal benefit. None of the older men of the Association would receive any benefit, but were taking means to train up young men to supplant themselves The young men would have good education, be thoroughly trained and instructed, and this competition must be felt by the older men. It was only right that the Legislature, acting for the people, should give some encouragement more than they bad done. The Act given practically say's that it is for the benefit of the public that they should distinguish between qualified and unqualified men, but practically gives the Association nothing after all. If that word could be knocked out, it would help the Association very much and would cause all to work harder for the benefit of the profession. The man who studies and works and passes his examinations should have the right to use the title, and certainly not the man who is so careless, indifferent or lazy that he will not take the trouble to become proficient. The latter should have no right to use a term which the others have acquired the right to use by hard work.

<person>Mr. Townsend</person>, when seconding, spoke in support of the motion.

<person>Mr. Billings </person>(Ottawa) spoke in the interests of those outside of the Association, and thought that the members of the Association would do better to hold on to the distinctive title "Registered Architects"—that the system of men styling themselves "architect" was in existence long before the formation of the Association and that nothing should be done to injure them ;

his own city of Ottawa there are architects better than some of those who have been accepted by the Association men with better education and training. In reply to an enquiry Mr. Billings stated that these gentlemen had not stated to him their reasons for not coining into the Association. But these men would certainly object.

Mr. Curry' drew the attention of the members to the fact that any man practising as an architect has the right to come into the Association, and contended that if a man did not want to avail himself of that privilege, it was his own lookout. If the Legislature, in looking after the interests of the public, hold it to be a good thing that men practising the profession of architecture shall become educated and properly qualified to do the work that is entrusted to them, it is not then infringing upon the interests of any private individual to say that men following that profession must become educated if they desire to use the title Architect." Up to the present time any man practicing the profession can come in. The Legislature has the right to say, "You shall not follow any profession requiring certain standards of efficiency unless you are prepared to take a course of study and pass certain examinations which will show that you are capable of doing the work properly, for the benefit of the public." (Hear, hear).

Mr. Billings stated that he did not object to wanting every man to pass an examination and to have a certain degree of competency', an(l that no doubt those men who would become clients of architects would desire it ; but that he desired that there should be some distinctive name by which the public shall know whether these men had passed examinations or not and contended that if a man wanted to engage the services of someone who was not a registered architect, it was a matter for the client and not for the Association.

<person>Mr. Darling </person>held that where it was perfectly' competent for the man to join the Association if he wished, if he did not (10 50 he ought to suffer for it, as the Association is for the public good.

Mr. Curry thought that the Association having now got in

such a shape that they can give the education that the Department asked for, and having put it within time range of all who wish to come into the Association on its present standing, that the Association can now claim that they have filled their part and have done all they were asked to do, that the Council should now be given very full power to obtain the full privileges that the Association should possess. Mr. Curry stated that Mr. Darling would take his place as mover of the resolution which would now be seconded by <person>Mr. Wagner.

</person>The resolution as it stood was then put to the Association

Moved by Mr. Darling, seconded by' Mr. Wagner, that the Council is hereby instructed by the Association to use their best efforts to have the word registered struck out of the Ontario Act," and was declared carried unanimously.

The Association then adjourned to witness the experiments in the testing laboratory' conducted by <person>Professor Galbraith </person>and his assistants.

After luncheon, which was served in the building, the members met again at 2:30 p.m.

AFTERNOON SESSION.



Messrs. <person>Hutchison</person> and <person>Clift,</person> of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>, having arrived during the morning, entered the Convention at the beginning of the afternoon session and were warmly welcomed by the meeting.

The first business was the consideration of the draft form of indenture for student apprentices, printed copies of which had been distributed on the previous afternoon that it might receive proper consideration before being discussed. Several members had questions to ask or suggestions to make. The indenture was finally referred again to a Committee with instructions to make certain additions and have the indenture lithographed for distribution to members of the Association.

The Hon. <person>G. W. Ross</person>, Minister of Education, having entered the meeting was invited to a seat beside the President. At the close of the discussion on the indenture, the President presented Mr. Ross to the meeting amid applause.

Mr. Ross expressed the pleasure he felt in meeting with an Association composed of representatives of the profession from all parts of the province of Ontario. He sympathized very heartily' with the efforts of the Association in endeavoring to give the profession a higher educational status. The legislation which he had the pleasure of promoting a few sessions ago laid the foundation for the better training of the profession and the cot-dial manner in which that legislation was received by' the profession was a proof that they were anxious to rank with the other learned professions of the country. He referred to the establishment of a department of architecture in the School of Science, and observed that the Ontario School of Practical Science was the only institution of the kind in the Dominion of Canada that provided special instruction in this line. Some years ago he visited the leading schools of the United States, such as Cornell, Lehigh, and the Boston Technological School, and found that the Americans haul provided very liberally for education of this kind and hi felt it to be his duty' to place within the reach of Canadians equal facilities. He was pleased to notice the cordiality which existed between the profession and the faculty' of the School of Science, and trusted that their mutual efforts in this respect would have the effect of improving the public taste in matters of architecture and all that pertains thereto. The last few years furnished abundant evidence that in this respect there was a great change. He felt honored because of their holding their meeting in the building, and trusted that nothing would occur to mar the harmony which existed at present between the Department of Education and the Association.

<person>Mr. Storm </person>being obliged to leave the meeting in consequence of a business engagement, called Mr. Curry' to the chair. As Mr. Storm was leaving the room, his portrait was flashed upon the wall from a magic lantern which was brought into play under time direction of Mr. Wright, of the School of Practical Science, to illustrate a talk upon house planning by Messrs. Townsend, Burke and <person>Langton</person>, which was the next thing on the programme. Slides had been prepared of the plans which were to form the objects of criticism and were thrown on the wall as required by the lecturers.

It was moved by <person>Mr. Edwards</person>, of Hamilton, seconded by <person>Mr. Kennedy</person>, of Barrie, that the thanks of the Association he expressed to the gentlemen who had just addressed them for the effort they had made and the trouble they' had taken.

Mr. Kennedy, of Barrie, brought up the matter of faking steps to prevent the stealing of plans, etc., asking for the appointment of a committee to memorialize the Government

Mr. Townsend believed that it would be better for Mr. Kennedy to simply request that the Council should take the matter up, and he was sure time Council would do everything necessary in the matter.

<person>Mr. Gouinlock</person>, who seconded Mr. Kennedy's motion as first made, agreed to the change lie had now in progress an action in this matter, and would be very glad to see some action taken.

Mr. Gordon thought that the present form of contract covered everything necessary'; the plans must be returned before the final certificate is given.

Mr. Gouinlock knew that, but would like to have some remedy if possible, and trusted the council would take it tip as suggested.

Mr. Bowman agreed with the preceding speakers ; lie had had

