	<doctype type="text">20	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	February, 1892



this School was that it put the architectural and engineering professions in touch with science. It was not proposed to go into it as a matter of amusement in any way. Meetings like those which had been held in the last two (lays strengthened the School with the Government and also did an immense amount of good to the students. Nothing would make thc young men take more interest in their work than to see the other men in the profession interested in it that was one of the greatest benefits that could be gained from meetings like the present. He had urged this upon the authorities and was happy to say that the Minister of Education, especially, had always shown himself open to argument in that respect. He had urged that the interruption to thc immediate work of the School caused by these meetings was as nothing as compared with thc benefits to the students. They could afford to let the work go a day or two for the sake of the stimulus and life that meetings like these put into their young men, and he hoped that meetings of all professional men connected with the work of the School would, in the course of time, be held in the School that they would make that a gathering point. They had done that in Montreal ; in McGill College the Faculty of Applied Science had done everything that they possibly could to bring the civil engineers, the mechanical engineers and the electrical engineers into connection with their school for the same reason and that was the only true policy. It is a school that lays the scientific foundation for a practical education. They wanted this sort of thing, and to feel themselves working in the same lines, doing the work in the same lines as the professions, and helping them. After thanking the gentlemen for the kind way in which they had received the toast, the speaker resumed his seat amid applause.

<person>Mr. Curry </person>said he was called upon to propose the next toast, and as it was in reality to one of their guests, he would on this occasion reverse the order, because after all what they' were particularly interested in was not the Public Library, but the librarian. As all were aware, <person>Mr. Bain </person>had taken a great deal of interest in the Architects' Association and in the profession, which interest he had shown in the trouble he had taken to place at their disposal the architectural works in the library as far as it was in his power. Lie is also using his best efforts to have a room arranged, when additions are made to the Library building, where architects may freely consult the valuable professional works now in the Library. No doubt all here are aware that any member of the Association by applying to the Registrar can consult at the Registrar's office a great number of the architectural works which belong to the public library. It was not necessary that the speaker should enlarge upon the benefit this was to an architect if he could have a work which he desired to look over, in a room by himself, with plenty of time and opportunity for the use of drawing materials, it was of very much greater benefit to him than if he had to go to a public institution where he could only work at a disadvantage. The Association was indebted, and all were personally indebted to the librarian for what he had done in that respect. The members of the Association could best show their appreciation of the efforts of the Public Librarian, Mr. Bain, by making, as far as possible, full use of the facilities which he had placed within their reach. He called upon all to drink to the health of Mr. Bain, Public Librarian.

Mr. Bain, replying, said he was very grateful to the proposer for the kind words which he had spoken. lie was very deeply interested in the library, and looked on this act as an approval of his course during the last eight years and as a presage of their support for the future. He had given himself twenty years in which to make the Public Library; eight years had already gone by and he thought they had made a fair start. He had hardly realized that it had assumed the position it had until this morning when they had received from the English Government a series of papers in reference to the Duke of Clarence's funeral addressed to the "Public Library, Canada, British North America," and they were delivered to the Toronto Public Library. (Laughter and applause.) Some four years ago he had been exceedingly anxious that they should have a special architectural and fine arts room, and proposed that the room should be fitted up entirely for works of architecture and the fine arts, so that gentlemen who were anxious to examine books and large plans could do so, and have opportunities of looking at books on kindred subjects, such as stained glass. carving, etc., that would be necessary in their work. Unfortunately it required a great deal of effort to get the municipal body to move however, two years ago he had succeeded in getting it passed, and had everything planned out for a very nice room when the matter was referred over for a few months. Plans were talked over, but just at that time, unfortunately, the people in the Argentine Republic took it into their heads to kick up a row. Messrs. <firm>Baring Bros</firm>., the people who floated the bonds for the Public library, failed, and left them without money. He had been very pleased a short time ago at receiving a visit from Messrs. <person>Langton</person> and <person>Darling </person>to talk over the matter again, to see if it was possible to afford any room in the present building. He was afraid, owning to the pressure of books now, that it would be impossible, but he thought within twelve or eighteen months they would be able to provide it, and not only double, but to-check their books on architecture. They were buying all the time, and never allowed a book, especially an expensive book, to pass. The cheaper books could be bought by architects for use in their offices day by day, but the expensive

books that a man only occasionally wishes to look over, books which in many cases are the works of architects themselves, printed in small numbers and issued in their own offices. He hoped that the accumulation would be such that it would be satisfactory to thc members of the Ontario Architectural Association.

<person>Mr. Langley </person>arose to propose a toast "To the Old Times and the New, in Architecture." He supposed that topic had been put in his hands to propose because he was considered to be getting to be one of the old heads. He accepted it as a compliment. He could look around on the company present and see many who had passed through his office—many of them now leading architects of the Province. It was a cause of sincere pleasure on his part. 38 years, lacking a month, ha(l passed over since he went to serve his time many changes had taken place in that period, and not the least among them was he marvellous advantages the pupils of the present day had as compared with those of thirty years ago. He was deeply gratified that two of his own sons were attending the School of Practical Science, with which <person>Prof. Galbraith </person>is connected, and having the advantages of the training which is to be obtained there. He had seen the profession increase in Toronto from about seven firms to nearly ten times that number. In connection with the toast he called on their friend, Mr. <person>Kivas Tully</person>, one very highly respected and very long in the profession, for a few words.

Mr. Tully in responding asked whether he was to represent thc old times or the new. He was still in practice ; he commenced serving his time 55 years ago and it was for those present to say whether they would have the old times or the new He should have liked to have had a young associate to support him under the great obligation of returning thanks for the new as well as he would try to do for the old. He had served his time in the old country and came here in 1844, when he found about four other architects here— <person>Mr. Howard</person>, the City Engineer, <person>Mr. Thomas</person>, <person>Mr. Young </person>and his (the speaker's) brother, who was serving his time in Mr. Howard's office, and himself; those were all the architects at that time in Toronto. He did not know how many theme were at thc present time, but he supposed about one hundred. He had to congratulate thc profession upon having improved so much of (I having become such a promising body. He was sorry to say he was the only living representative of those five architects. He hoped that in the future the rising generation would do as good work as had been (long in the past. (Applause). He had been very much pleased to hear the remarks which had been made by Mr. Dick and Prof. Galbraith upon the strength of materials. He advised the younger members not to skimp their work in any way, but to have plenty of strength.

The President called upon Mr. Clift, of Montreal, who responded with a few well chosen remarks for the "New Times."

Mr. Curry stated that he had a matter to introduce which had been postponed at thc afternoon meeting. He had to inform the President that, in his absence that afternoon, while he (Mr. Curry) was occupying the chair, the Association passed a vote of thanks for the very great pains and trouble to which he had gone during the past three or four years to help forward the interests of thc profession and the Association. The mover and seconder of the resolution and also several members of the Association had spoken very highly of the work which the President had done, and it was a very great pleasure for him now to also state that having been a member of time Council during the time <person>Mr. Storm </person>had been President, he could substantiate any statement which had been made as to the interest he had taken in the Association and the amount of work he had done on its behalf. In no particular had he shirked his duty, and had always been pleased to do all that lay within his power to assist the Association with his sympathy and also by actual work. By so doing he bad benefited the Association to a very great extent; it was work which possibly no one else could have done in as satisfactory a manner. He now desired to express to the President the thanks of the Association for what he had done in the past, aid a wish that although under the by-laws and constitution of the Association, lie cannot be the president for the following year, that in some other year or years he may be again at the head of thc Association. (Applause). The speaker concluded by calling upon the Association to drink to the health of the retiring President and his success.

The toast was heartily responded to.

The president, responding to thc toast, returned his thanks for the honor conferred and the eloquent remarks of Mr. Curry in proposing the toast and informing him of the resolution which the Association had so kindly passed after his departure from the meeting that afternoon. What little he had done to forward the interests of the Association during the last few years had been done with the greatest pleasure and he felt that the appreciation of them was far beyond their value; what he had done would have been of no advantage to the Association had he not had with him a first-class working Council and also a first-class Registrar during the whole term. (Applause). These gentlemen were entitled to more praise than he was, for their untiring energy y and devotion to the interests of the Association.

<person>Mr. Jarvis </person>proposed the toast to "The Ladies," coupling therewith the name of Mr. <person>A. C. Barrett</person>, who in graceful periods eulogized the fair sex. This brought to a fitting close a thoroughly enjoyable evening.

