<doctype type="text">12 THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

February, 1892



ceased to flow and have continued dry till the present. The mill owner is now seeking for redress, but so far without success, as the Board did not enter upon any property owned by him, and did not divert any natural water course as defined by statute. Very frequently municipal corporations are mulcted in large damages for trivial acts of neglect or for expropriating property. An instance in which fortune favored the municipality is so exceptional as to be a matter of special remark anti congratulation.



THE astonishment of the architects assembled at the recent convention at finding a member speaking in favor of the obnoxious term, "Registered Architect," seems to have hindered their seeing clearly that the discussion was one of words merely. <person>Mr. Billings </person>wanted to retain the title as being a distinctive title for the trained and educated architect. Surely the name "Architect" should be this distinctive name, as it is already in the language with honorable association as the proper title of a man who is skilled in the art of architecture. It would bc a pity to leave this name by Act of Parliament to practitioners who it is generally understood are not architects in thc proper sense of the term, while the man who is truly an architect can only use the title with a qualifying addition. When Bonnellesehi proved that he could build the dome of Florence and Oghiberti could not, would lie have thanked the Florentines if they had for that obliged him to give up the name " Architect " to Oghiberti, and call himself a " Registered Architect "



UNDER present conditions it seems to be a difficult matter to determine the strength of the various brands of cement on the Canadian market. The same brand will give the widest possible variation in results when tested by different individuals. In consequence differences have arisen between architects and dealers. The architect specifies that the cement shall come up to a certain standard The dealer's tests show that the required standard has been reached, In the hands of the architect or of his clerk of works it perhaps falls short fifty or one hundred per cent. Under such circumstances we have known the dealer to request the architect to call in a disinterested third party to determine the strength of the material, but the request was refused. The honest dealer in such a case finds himself in a very unenviable position. He may have every confidence in the merits of his material to withstand a properly conducted test, but the means are not afforded him of proving his case. He is therefore under the necessity of endeavoring to procure other material in hope that it may meet with the approval of the architect, or of bringing legal action against the architect for refusing to accept material which he has reason to believe would fill the requirements if properly treated. He well knows that such a step would be likely to debar him for the future from being given the opportunity of supplying material required by that particular architect in his practice. In view of the varying behaviour of cements when subjected to tests at the hands of different individuals and by means of different methods, it has become highly desirable that there should be established by the Government one or more resting laboratories, where by payment of a reasonable fee, an authoritative test of the quality of cement and other materials could be had. We trust that full facilities for such tests will ere long be available at the <building>School of Practical Science, Toronto</building>, and at <building>McGill University, Montreal</building>.





WHEN the Toronto city council was called on a few months ago to conclude negotiations for the lease of the street railway franchise to a syndicate for a period of thirty years, it took the precaution of employing the services of legal gentlemen of high professional standing to assist in framing an agreement which should protect the city's interests, It is a singular fact that in the agreement which, as the result of this precaution, was drawn up and ratified by the Council, no provision was made fur compelling the company leasing the road to adopt any improvement in methods of propulsion by electricity which in the future might be found to be more desirable than the overhead trolley. The agreement provides that the style of motor to be adopted by the company must be approved of by the City Engineer. This we take it applies to the system to be adopted when the change from horses to electricity is first made. Those familiar with the progress achieved in the application of electricity to the operation of street railways are aware, that the only satisfactory method of propulsion at present is that of the overhead trolley. It is by no means unlikely, however, that within the long period of thirty years this system will be superseded by one very much better. Care should therefore have been taken that in the event of such an improvement taking place, the city would not be under the necessity of putting up with an inferior system until the term of the lease would expire. While the terms might not have been quite so favorable to the city as at present had the council insisted that the agreement must contain a clause compelling when necessary a change of system, much better terms could have been secured before the ratification of the agreement than can be obtained now. The company is urging the Council to give its consent to the use of the overhead trolley system, and intimate that they are willing to enter into an agreement to change the system when necessary, on condition that the city will indemnify them against all loss consequent upon the change.

Should the city consent to this, it is safe to say that the amount of the indemnity which will have to be paid will be infinitely greater than the sum which would have been sufficient to effect the change prior to the signing of the agreement. The company's letter on the subject contains the significant clause that their "tender was based on an electrical system, and not on the continuation of a horse railway, and the city will fairly be responsible, not only for loss of revenue to the purchasers, but for many other items of damages incident to the unreasonable delay," should it longer delay its consent to the change being proceeded with. In short, the city is compelled either to commit the citizens to the use of the trolley for the next thirty years, or accept the company's terms for a change of system when required. That it should find itself thus situated does no credit to the discernment of those who had a hand in consummating the agreement, and least of all to their distinguished legal advisers.



THE second annual convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>held in the School of Practical Science, Toronto, was a very interesting one, and in many respects was as successful as could be desired. The present number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is largely devoted to a full report of the proceedings, with the exception of the papers and discussions thereon, which will be printed in subsequent issues. Were it not for the publication of this report, many of the members of the Association, not having been present, would be able to obtain but a very imperfect conception of the variety and importance of the business transacted. It is a matter of regret that so many of the members are unwilling to devote the small amount of time and money necessary to meet once a year with their professional brethren for the consideration of questions affecting in an important degree the welfare of architecture in this country. The architects of the city of Hamilton, although only forty miles distant, were with one exception conspicuous by their absence. lt. would be interesting to know what excuse they have to offer for non-attendance. Still more deserving of censure are those members of the Association resident in Toronto who did not sufficiently interest themselves in the event to put in an appearance at the meetings. Their conduct bears unfavorable comparison to that of members residing in Kingston and Ottawa. From each of these cities there were present two representatives. It was also the subject of special satisfaction to see present Messrs. <person>Hutchison</person> and <person>Clift,</person> representing the sister Association of the Province of Quebec. The interest attaching to the occasion was enhanced considerably by the harmonious character of the surroundings. <person>Professor Galbraith</person>, the principal, and <person>Mr. Wright</person>, professor of Architecture in the School of Science, spared no effort to make the visit of the architects one of pleasure and profit. The tests of materials in the laboratory were themselves a feature of much interest and value. There was also quite an extensive exhibition of drawings, which though including little with which Toronto members were not familiar, was of much interest to those from outside places.





The annual dinner at Webb's was remarkable for the variety and excellence of the speeches which the occasion called forth. The remarks of the visitors from the Province of Quebec were felt to be well considered and timely. Mr. Hutchison's suggestion regarding the formation of a Dominion- Association evidently met the sympathies of a number of the members of the Ontario Society. While the majority may feel that the efforts of the two provincial organizations for some time to come will be required to be directed to strengthening their positions and putting in the way of fulfillment the important objects for which they were organized, it is the hope of all that eventually a Dominion Association will exist, and be the means of achieving greater things on behalf of the interests of the profession than can be accomplished by means of the present organizations. Professor Galbraith's remarks, especially relating to the strength of materials, were very instructive and valuable, while <person>Mr. Gordon</person>'s references to the injustice (lone Canadian architects by the failure of the customs authorities to see that the protection designed by the tariff to be given to Canadian architects is actually afforded them, were timely and should serve to call the attention of the public as well as the Government to this important matter. From the social standpoint the dinner would have been more enjoyable had provision been made for a brief program of vocal and instrumental music. In all other respects it was a most successful affair.





Mr<person>. W. C. Storm</person>, who has filled the position of President since the organization of the Association, bears with him in his retirement the highest esteem of his associates. His administration has been marked by the deepest interest in everything calculated to uplift the profession, strict fidelity to duty, and the utmost courtesy towards every member of the Association. Mr. <person>S. C. Curry</person>, who has been appointed as his successor, has been a leading spirit in the Association from its inception, and has spared no effort to advance its interests. As President of the Association his enthusiasm and energy will no doubt continually prompt him to promote in every possible way its prosperity, and in so doing we hope he will receive the hearty co-operation of every member.

