<doctype type="text">	14	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	February, 1892



now so much in favor, and with—what is not the least consideration—a very material saving in the cost of building.

The Council have prepared a draft of indenture for articled clerks which has met the approval of your solicitor printed proof copies of this have been distributed on the seats throughout the room for use of all the members in attendance at this convention. The Council request your approval of this draft and your instructions as to whether it shall be printed similar to the form in your hands or neatly lithographed. The Council have also prepared a draft form of instructions to architects, which they recommend for use in all future competitions. Proof copies of this have also been distributed throughout the room.

Our Association is now fully launched before the world of scientific institutes under the most favorable auspices. As I have remarked on a former occasion, this is the first Architectural Association in any country to obtain for its incorporation the sanction of the Legislature of the laud in which it is located. But all this is of little value in elevating the profession to the standard of perfection we aspire to, unless the individual members of the profession will, by their regular attendance upon our annual re-unions—even if to do so involves some considerable personal sacrifice—add each his quota to the common fund of information and contribute from his individual store of knowledge to the interest and general usefulness of the convention, and by strict attention to the severest code of professional honor and esprit de corps in their individual dealings one with another and with the public, endeavor to command that respect and esteem which should be inseparable from the name of architect.

And now in conclusion permit me to extend to the officers and members of the Council and of the Association my cordial thanks for their uniform kindness to me personally, and for passing over the many deficiencies I am conscious of having exhibited during the three years I have had the honor to preside over the Association. I am nevertheless sensible of the confidence reposed in me. of which I shall ever entertain the most grateful remembrances, as being one of the proudest compliments paid me during my long professional career. In taking leave of the chair, which I must in accordance with the terms of the by-laws of the Association do at the end of this session, permit me to wish you all individually and as an Association, the fullest prosperity in your business and social relations, and I pray that the Great Architect of the Universe may grant you all health, wealth and happiness in this world, and the salutation "Well done good and faithful servants" on that day when we shall all be asked to render an account of the manner in which Our earthly tasks have been completed. As the poet Longfellow has it

"All are architects of Fate,

working in these walls of me

Some with massive deeds and great,

Some with ornaments of rhyme.



Nothing useless is, or low,

Each thing in its place is best

And what seems but idle show,

Strengthens and supports the rest.



For the structure that we raise,

Time is with materials filled;

Our to-days and yesterdays

Are the blocks with which we build

in the elder days of Art,

Builders wrought with greatest care,

Each minute and unseen part;

For the gods see everywhere.



Let us do our work as well,

Both the unseen and the seen;

Make the house, where God ma dwell,

Beautiful, entire and clean."



It was decided that as <person>Prof. Galbraith </person>could not be present at 10 o'clock the following morning, that <person>Mr. Curry</person>'s paper should be the first order, and that Prof. Galbraith would be heard at eleven ; and as there was no paper from any member of the Quebec Association ready, one prepared by <person>Mr. Fuller</person>, of Ottawa, to be read by <person>Mr. Billings</person>, was substituted.

Mr. <person>D. B. Dick </person>submitted the report of the Treasurer as follows

TREASURER S REPORT.

DR.

To balance from Association at date of incorporation	$ 172.80

To cash received from <person>S. H. Townsend </person>as Registrar	$2,351.33

	To	do	do	<person>W. A. Langton</person>	do	551.00 2902.33

	To refund from CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	26.00

	To interest on bank a/c	87.22

CR	$3,188.35

By cash to Registrars' for disbursements

	S. H. Townsend	338.65

	W. A. Langton	494.00	832.65

	By CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a cs	  82.05

	By Registrar's salary (W. A. Langton, six months)	 100.00

By fee for two years refunded to widows of two deceased

members                                                     1050 By balance in hank                                             2,1 63.15

	$3,158.35

We have examined the books, vouchers, etc , of the Association, and certify that the above is a correct statement thereof.

	<person>HENRY LANGLEY</person>,	Auditors.

<person>W.L. SYMONS</person>,

Mr. Dick explained that owing to the change of the date of the expiry of the annual subscription consequent on the merging of the old Association into the new, that refunds had to be made

to those members who paid their subscriptions to the extent of two-fifths, and that the accounts covered a period of about seventeen months. Consequently, they did not give a fair index of what the annual revenue of the Association would be in future. There would also be the expense of conducting examinations, and it was not likely that the Association would be able to retain such a large balance at its credit as it now had.

On motion by <person>Mr. Edwards</person>, seconded by <person>Mr. Smith</person>, the above was received and adopted.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, read his report as follows

REGISTRAR'S REPORT.

During the year since the last convention, the Association has been established in its regular course.

The by-laws were completed, printed and distributed.

The curriculum of study for the examinations was arranged and the registered students classified according to their length of service so as to require from them only those examinations which were just ; that is to say, which would permit those students who had entered into articles before the passing of the Act, to proceed to practice upon the fulfillment of their articles with as little hindrance as possible.

A Board of Examiners has also been appointed who have in charge, subject to the control of the Council, the examinations of next April.

The Association library was founded by the Council at its meeting in May, but as the greater part of the books could only be got in England, the collection was not complete enough for the issue of a catalogue before September. Since then the library has been in use by 1)0th architects and students. All members of the Association and registered students have had copies (If the catalogue sent to them.

A form of indenture has been drafted and approved by the Solicitor of the Association.

Conditions of competition have been drawn up, which are submitted to the convent ion to-day.

Tests have been made of the building stone in use in the province, and the results will be reported

A register of draughtsmen out of employment has been started in connection with the Registrar's office Any student who has served his time and is in search of a position, or a draughtsman out of work, may advertise his want in this way without charge, and architects can by application at the Registrar's office select from the list of applications.

By the request of <person>Mr. Wright</person>, of tile School of Practical Science, the Council are supporting his endeavor to establish a permanent exhibition of drawings, of which the nucleus is at present in place, at the School of Practical Science. The motive of the exhibition is primarily the benefit of the students of the School, and it is intended to be a factor in their education. Wit it is thought that it will also be of general advantage to the profession to have a central exhibition room where the best efforts of the profession may be displayed.

The Council has made two efforts to procure a design suitable for the seal of the Association without result. So far there have been no satisfactory designs submitted. The prize offered for the successful competitor in the competition which was advertised was $25. This sum is still offered to any one who will send in a workable design which meets the approval of the Council.

The Board of the Presbyterian Church has been endeavoring to improve the type of churches built for their body by offering prizes for the best designs for churches of different classes, a schedule of which was published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The money prizes are small, but there is the opportunity afforded of securing work by the exhibition of ability to do it. The Association has become connected with this yenture on the part (If the Presbyterian Board by their request that the Council of the Association would appoint a Committee to adjudge the prizes and report upon the drawings submitted.

I would like to remind the members that there are twenty-one members of the Association who have not paid their fees, and that in accordance with the resolution passed some little time ago, these members have not the right to vote until their fees are paid.

On motion the report was received and adopted.

The President announced the next order of business to be the consideration of the report of the Committee on "Conditions of Competition," a draft of which, prepared by Messrs. <person>Arnoldi</person> and <person>Curry</person> had been printed and distributed.

Mr. Curry suggested that the draft be read and t-considered clause by clause, which was agreed to.

A lively discussion ensued in which the questions of the rendering (If drawings ; the nature (If the report to be demanded from the experts ; the definition of time commission's the possibility of the design placed exceeding unreasonably the proposed price and many points of precision in wording were dealt with and the draft amended in some points.

<person>Mr. Gregg </person>thought that the circular ought to give some definite information as to what amount (If money was to be divided in prizes. The average was one-half per cent, divided into three prizes, and there should be some note bearing on this point at the end of the clause.

Mr. Curry said that it was his intention to bring up the matter when they were considering clause 14 ; tile second, third and fourth prizes should be a definite percentage on the total cost,

