	<doctype type="text">28	March, 1892



THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER<article title=" ELEMENTS OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION—STRUCTURAL

IRON WORK " author="Burke, Edmund">ELEMENTS OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION—STRUCTURAL

IRON WORK."

The following lecture to first and second intermediate students on the " Elements of Building Construction," and to second intermediate students on " Structural Lion Work," was delivered at the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Sketch Club </assoc>by Mr. <person>E. Burke</person>, examiner in the above subjects

In presenting a paper on the elements of building construction before the first year students, the brief time at my disposal will permit of But a rapid and cursory presentation of the subject. In fact, the most of your work is so admirably covered in Mitchell's " Elements of Building Construction " that I will avoid a repetition of the points there covered, and endeavor to touch some not mentioned—especially where Canadian methods differ from those in vogue in England.

<person>Prof. Aitchison </person>in one of his recent lectures said : " Building consists in putting the materials we have at command in certain positions, and giving them certain forms. The size and shape of these forms depend on certain statical considerations. Arithmetic, mathematics and geometry can alone enable us to solve the necessary statical problems ; so these elements must first be mastered to enable US to solve the statical problems that present themselves. Next comes the knowledge of the strengths and capabilities of the materials we have to use" Fortunately we live in times when these strengths and capabilities are being determined with more accuracy than in the past, although have to admit that most of our data is so indefinite that we are compelled when we build to employ what is called a " factor of safety," which in reality is a " factor of ignorance." For instance, a beam of a certain scantling is supposed to break under a strain of a certain number of pounds. As a matter of fact it may break at half that amount, as was demonstrated at the School of Science during our late convention. Hence it is usual in our constructions to allow from 5 to 10 times the supposed breaking strength of a material for a so called "factor of safety."

The first point in commencing a building is the question of the nature of the soil or bed upon which the walls are to rest. If this be of rock or of some compact dry substance which is comparatively unyielding, it is called a natural foundation and may be built upon directly. But if the ground is too soft to bear the weight of the structure required, it will need an artificial foundation. This may be obtained in a variety of ways : First, by planks in two or more thicknesses laid reversely and of sufficient breadth to sustain the weight above without undue settlement; second, by abed of concrete of sufficient depth and width; third, by piles driven to a solid bottom, cut off evenly at tops to receive plank, concrete or stone footings ; and four/h, by a gridiron of steel rails as developed by the necessities of Chicago building operations, where great spread is required in proportion to the height available for the footing courses. Where planks or piles are used, it is imperative that they be constantly submerged in water to prevent decay and the eventual collapse of the foundation of the structure. Footings should not project more than two-thirds of their thickness beyond the work above, and at least two-thirds of their width should be covered by the work above. Good rubble walling should be composed of stories thin in proportion to their length and breadth. The centre of gravity should be observed in placing the walls upon the footings and base of the building, allowance being also made for the weight of floors and partitions. In placing columns carrying weight it is of the utmost importance that they should be centrally placed. The non-observance of this rule was one of the causes of the accident to the <building>Montreal Y.M.C.A</building>.

The various bonds of brickwork used in England are clearly explained in "Mitchell." American bond, called "Stretching" or "Chininey Bond," is only recommended for 1/2 brick walls; while it makes a weak wall it certainly produces a much better appearance in a 9" wall than any other method of laying. A wall of this thickness having headers cannot he built smooth and even on both sides, as all bricks vary more or less in length. The diagonal bonders every 5th course give a wall built with this bond as much stiffness as is necessary for a wall of the limited height to which one this thickness should be carried. This bond also lends itself to the construction of hollow walls where one shell is but a half brick thick and can be bonded into the rest of the wall with hoop iron ties which should have a dip to prevent the water of condensation being carried to the inner thickness of the wall.

Mitchell speaks of built up wooden beams, that is, beams made up of several thicknesses of stuff, in connection with temporary structures chiefly, and that they are economical. In our practice this method of construction is considered superior to solid beams. Among others are the following reasons :—The material being of thin stuff, defects can be more readily detected and a superior quality secured. With several thicknesses the change or reversal of the grain thus obtained helps the stiffness of the construction, and by a system of splicing or breaking joint, no two joints coming opposite, long spans may he covered, such as the tie beams of roof principals. And lastly, the wood may he obtained better seasoned.

Much of the splicing, cogging, jointing and morticing dealt with in Mitchell is practically obsolete in this country, much better results being obtainable by the use of wro't iron bolts,

straps andi stirrups, the use of which avoids the inevitable weakening of paits which should he the strongest. The high rate of wages is also prohibitive, as the making of the joints illustrated would consume an immense amount of time, which in these days is, indeed, money. At the same time a great deal of the common class of work of to-day is to be deprecated, there is too much tendency to " knock things together," superinduced by the craze for cheapness and inordinate haste, after the example set by our restless cousins to the South who use the almighty nail and trust it implicitly. With us deep joists are so readily obtainable that we do not need, as a rule, to resort to the English method of beams at comparatively short spacing and light Joists with a counter ceiling to conceal the beams : a method wasteful as to height and creating in the large hollow spaces a very paradise for vermin. The practice of beveling the ends of joists to prevent injury to the walls in case of fire is not mentioned, but is a very necessary precaution, perhaps more in regard to the prevention of loss of life and spread of fire than in the mere saving of the walls themselves. None of the methods of jointing flooring equal ours for adaptability, simplicity and case of laying. Much of the ordinary work in England is with-out jointing, permitting dirt and moisture to drop to the ceiling or floor below.

In regard to roofs, the student must be warned against the examples in " Mitchell " where gutters are formed behind parapet walls. The only successful roof in our climate is that which permits the snow and ice to have free escape to the ground. To this end valleys should have ample space at the foot, enlarging as they approach the eaves, and gutters should invariably be set low enough to permit snow to slide off without obstruction. A bell-cast at the foot of the rafter will accomplish the same object. Facias should also project sufficiently to have a drip clear of the walls beneath.

Slates or tiles must, with us, be laid upon a solid substance. The English method of setting upon battens would permit our fine dry snow to blow in, and the extreme cold outside and the heat inside would cause condensation on the under-side resulting in wet ceilings. The roof principals illustrated, are entirely of the low pitch type, but a mastery of the principles of their construction will enable the student to soon grapple the points of other forms. The method of constructing principals with wood-en king and queen posts is now practically obsolete. The great number of joints results in considerable shrinkage unless constantly tightened up, resulting in sagged roofs and strained walls. Roofs of composite construction arc now in general use, where at least the king or queen bolt succeed the posts of the same 

The practice of battening walls for the sake of warmth and dryness is not mentioned and does not seem to be usual in English practice. It seems strange that in such a humid climate some more successful method than that of the hollow wall has not been introduced. The hollow wall does not thoroughly meet the necessities of the case, inasmuch as a certain proportion of the wall as at piers, openings, &c., must be solid. The hollow wall has the advantage of permitting a more solid job of plastering and should be used in work likely to meet rough usage, but it cannot compare n dryness and comfort with the battened wall. The disadvantages of the latter are, however : Jst, the danger of conveying fire through several stories ; and 2nd, the opportunity for the free passage of vermin. Both these contingencies however can he avoided by proper breaks or stops at all floors and ceilings, either by sailing courses of brick, or by horizontal battens at the ceiling and floor line.

Mitchell's chapter on joiner)' conveys practically all the information necessary in the ordinary experience of an architect's office, and a careful perusal is recommended.

The following is an outline of the work with which the 1st and 2nd intermediate students should be familiar in connection with the coming examinations on "The Elements of Building Construction :



 The various bonds in brickwork in ordinary use, offsets in footings, gauged arches of various forms and inverted arches, trimmer arches for fire-places, corbelling.

Sketches of mason work showing uncoursed and coursed rubble; ashlar and the proper bonding of the same ; window sills, stone heads, strings, copings and quoins ; methods of connecting stone by cramps, dowels and joggles.

Show how to scarf, mortice, tenon and build up timbers as applied to plates, roof timbers, beams and partitions.

Draw simple roof truss, king or queen post or rods, with details of framing and iron work.

Draw floor beams, joists, trimmers and coverings, or floors single and double a framed partition with a door opening in it.

Draw a section of door and window frames, the latter boxed, casement or lead glazed; section and elevation of plain, panelled, moulded, raised panel and bolection moulded doors.

Show how to flash on a felt and gravel roof, and also the flashings of a sloping roof at parapet walls ; also construction of gutters suitable for this climate.

In the Second Intermediate the student should also he able to draw sections of various forms of cast and wro't iron columns, the latter built with Z bars or angle iron ; section of head and foot of superimposed columns showing method of connecting.

Explain the various strains to which iron is subjected in buildings.

