<doctype type="text">	32	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	March, 1892



the same feed pipe and use great care in seeing that the connections were so made that each radiator would get an ample supply of heat. At the present time the tendency is to run mains for hot water heating very much on the same principle as steam mains are run. This method has been found satisfactory if the hot water engineer is thoroughly acquainted with his work and understands the principles governing hot water regulation. In the hands of an ignorant mechanic the results would be most disastrous. In very good and elaborate work the mains are valved so that it is possible to cut the heat off in any portion of the building without the least interference with the working of the balance. With hot water heating a steady uniform temperature can be maintained at all times with very little trouble. There is very little improvement in hot water heating over that derived from stoves, except that due to the fact that the air in the house is heated on a very large surface at lower temperature. It is the same air which is warmed over and over again, except whatever may come in through cracks and crevices owing to the difference in pressure between tile cold outside air and the warm air in the house. As a rule nearly all the hot water heating has been done without any attempt at introducing fresh air.

Indirect hot water heating has been tried in this climate but with little success. The risk from frost is very great, and if the heater should become frozen the damage done is by no means light. It is possible (luring the day to have tile benefit of indirect warming, when the fire can be kept burning brightly and there is some one to watch the heaters, dampers and fresh air supply, but to allow indirect heating to be continued during the night is exceedingly dangerous, because the outside temperature may drop very low and the fire under the boiler may become burnt out, in which case the heaters would freeze very quickly and cause a large amount of damage. I am aware that indirect hot water heating has been tried, and that according to the statement of those who have put it in, it has been found satisfactory. A careful examination of every so-called indirect hot water system w ill show that in nearly every case the air is supplied to the heater from the basement, and not from the outside, as soon as the weather becomes at all cold. In fact there are indirect hot water systems where the air is never taken from outside the house, but is brought from the basement at all times. It is possible by a very carefully arranged system with a very large boiler surface and great care on the part of the attendant, to pass a plentiful supply of fresh air over hot water pipes in the ordinary way, hut the safest, most economical and satisfactory method is to build a brick enclosed space of such size as may be necessary, similar to that surrounding a hot air furnace. By placing a large quantity of pipe in deep coils, cold air may he warmed with a reasonable degree of safety. Fresh air should he brought in at the bottom of the space, with the opening so arranged that the incoming air cannot blow on to the hot water coils. Tin pipes are then taken from the sides of the enclosed space to the different rooms to he warmed. By arranging several of these warming chambers, according to the size of the house, a house may l)e fairly well warmed by the indirect system without much danger of damage from frost. There will have to he less or more direct heating surface in every room to be used in cold weather, as it will be found impossible to keep a house warm by the indirect hot air plan, as it is impossible to pass a large volume of very cold air through the heating coils. Hot water heating in an ordinary sized building will be found very satisfactory, hut when the building is very large, steam heating will give better satisfaction.

The steam heating system is very similar to the hot water system in general outline. There is the boiler in the basement with supply and return mains to radiators placed where heat is required. A steam boiler may be of any size from a small portable one to a very large boiler similar to those used for generating steam for power purposes. In steam beating on the gravity principle there is. But one large supply main and corresponding return hack to the boiler. The steam is taken to the different radiators by means of branches from the main supply, and the water of condensation returned in like manner to the main return.

\\Tith a steam plant it is possible to have a first-class indirect heating job. The indirect heaters are generally placed in the basement below the rooms which are to he warmed with a hot air flue running tip to the rooms to be warmed. The fresh air may be supplied to the different indirect heaters by means of one or more common fresh air ducts, or an independent supply may be brought to each heater. The latter method, if t is possible, is the better to adopt, as each heater having its own supply will always have the necessary quantity of fresh air. With one common duct, if the system is not very carefully arranged, the heaters which supply air to the rooms on the upper floors will draw such large quantities of air as to practically rob the heaters to the ground floor. In bringing fresh air into the heaters it is necessary to arrange checks in such a way that cold currents of air can not he driven upon the radiators. The fresh air should rise slowly to the bottom of the heaters through an ample opening. Where the air is brought from the outside separately to each heater, it will be well to take it low down towards the floor and then allow it to ascend to the heating chamber. The supply and return pipe to radiator should be so run that they will be outside of the heating chamber and cold

air supply. If the return main is dropped down within the cold air supply or near it, there is a possibility of it freezing. There is little to fear from frost with the indirect steam radiators placed in the manner described above, even though the cold air opening should be fully open and the steam in the boiler run down, as there is nothing to freeze beyond a small amount of vapor. It is seldom satisfactory to attempt to heat two rooms from one radiator. It is always better to have the radiator proportioned to the size of the room to be warmed and take from it one hot air pipe. The action is then positive, there being no possibility of one pipe drawing all the air and leaving the other pipe inactive, or with a possible down current in it to the radiator.

Steam heating is generally done on the gravity system where the plant is put in for heating purposes only. Where there is a boiler used for power purposes, steam may be taken from it and reduced down so that it can be used with perfect safety and with good results in the ordinary gravity system of piping by returning the condensed water to the boiler by means of a pump. In such cases it is usual to make arrangements to use the exhaust steam from the cylinder of the engine with the back pressure valve set so as to keep a small pressure in the steam mains.

In large buildings where it is possible to have tile steam plant thoroughly designed and with a surplus boiler power, very satisfactory heating may be had with steam, but where the boiler is not of large size and has a small amount of heating surface, it is very difficult to maintain the heat at anything like an average temperature.



<article title="How to estimate" author="Hodson, W.H.">HOW TO ESTIMATE.*

By W. H. Hodson.

Following is the remaining portion of the specification and hills of quantities accompanying the drawings of <building>Public School on Gladstone Avenue, Toronto</building>, published in time CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for February :

BLACK BOARDS.

Provide and fix ground work of blackboard on sliding door composed of six sheets of 1/8 thick teather board 30 ifl. x 36 in. jointed and glued on to large door panel 36 in. x 15 ft. long, and left in readiness to receive composition paste to he put on by the School Board. (This leather board can be procured from the establishment of P. Jacobi. 5 Wellington St. east, city, an 1 5 cents per pound. ) At the platform end of seven class rooms there will he slate blackboards 4 ft. high and 16 ft. long. composed of four slates 5/8 of an inch thick, jointed and packed and fitted to an even and true surface, and to be of Rockland slate of best quality, and to be approved by the architect and the inspector of city Public schools. These slates to be secured in position by WOO(lt'fl stop screws or with round head screws. Provide and fix moulded casing around all blackboards, both slate and plaster composition, in all class rooms, also x 3 in. ground at hack of slate board. The casing around blackboard to be 4 X 1 in. and to cope into side of architrave and to be moulded in same manner. For amount of composition blackboards see plasterer's specifications. The blackboards will extend along both sides and ends of each class room. The carpenter's tenders are to state the deduction of the slate if not required.



BRICKWORK.

All brick used in the works are to be of the best quality of Carlton brick, and (except otherwise specified) to be of a deep red color and to be hard and well burnt and free front lime and other defects. All outer walls and chimney stacks arc to be faced up with " picked ' hard and deep red colored  face brick.' No soft brick will he allowed in the work, and arc not to be brought upon the ground, but if any should be brought there, they are to be immediately removed. The mortar is to be composed of the best quality of coarse, clean sharp grit sand, and fresh burnt lime, in the proportion of 2 1/2 of sand to one of lime, mixed with a proper quantity of clean water and thoroughly incorporated and tempered together. Build all brick walls as shown upon drawings and in accordance with the dimensions figured on plans and sections. The brickwork is to be laid up so as to gauge four courses to every 11 in. in height, and to be carried up uniformly throughout the building. Every course of brick is to be laid in a full bed of mortar, and to be thoroughly flushed in with mortar at all cross and other joints. The walls are to be built in English bond for all partition walls, and fur the inner portion of all external walls, hut the outer face of all external walls jc to be built American " or " Stretcher" bond, the face brick being clipped to receive diagonal binders continuously on every 5th course. The walls and chimney stacks are to be carred up plumb, square and true, built to a line on both sides, particularly the face of all outer walls which are to he built fair an(l true, with each and every course laid with close and level joints. The inner face of outer walls are to be finished for plastering on also both faces of all inner or partition walls in same manner. All the outer or foundation walls of basement are to he lined up with brickwork one-half brick or in. in thickness, tied into the stone work with a double heading course at the floor line, midway up, and at ceiling line of basement, and midway between these double heading courses to have a single heading course, making three double and two single heading courses for the whole height of basement storey. This brick lining will be composed of the best quality of picked hard grey brick, laid with level and fair close joints well bedded in mortar and the joints neatly struck with the trowel. The partition walls in basement also the chimney breasts, are to be fared tip "grey" brick, as above described, and pointed in the same manner, as there will be no plastering on basement wails. The bricklayer will provide for and execute all brickwork in connection with the Smead-Dowd heating and ventilating apparatus as indicated by the drawings and in accordance with the plans and specifications of such heating and ventilating apparatus hereto appended. The bricks used in connection with the above mentioned heating and ventilating apparatus are to he of the very best quality of picked hard and well shaped. red and grey brick in such proportion as may be required to be built in a shapely and workmanlike manner, with close joints, neatly struck with the trowel. The walls for the air chambers and furnaces will be from 9 in. to 13 1/2 in. in thickness, and extending front floor to ceiling, and all built square. true and plumb. Build the large ventilating and smoke stacks as shown per plans, elevation and sections, and in accordance with the dimensions figured on same. These stacks are to he built with picked hard brick, and the inside of same carefully and thoroughly parged with mortar, and so as to render the same even anti smooth inside,



* This series of articles commenced in. November, 1891.

