<doctype type="text">	34	March, 1892



to same complete, and connected to drain under basement floor. The above described plumbing work to be of the most substantial character and finished in best manner, and to include sixteen heavy metal drinking cups with strong chain attachments to the drinking stands complete.

PLASTERING WORK.

Provide and render the inside of all Outer walls before the same are lathed ( basement walls excepted) with one good heavy coat of brown hair mortar. Provide and lay in pugging between ground floor arid first floor joists for deafening, to be composed of coarse mortar and spread in with a mould  anti so as to be two inches thick in the centre and three inches at the sides, as shown per marginal section. Provide and lath all Outer walls (basement walls excepted) and all ceilings and soffits of stairs with best quality of sawn pine lath 1 in. wide for ceilings and 1 1/4 wide fur walls, to be laid on with at least 5-16 of an inch keep joint and breaking joints every sixth lath ; lath to be well seasoned and free from sap and other defects. Render, float and set, in best " three coat" work, all walls and ceilings and soffit of stairs throughout the building (basement excepted), and finish the same in best  " hard whit' finish," all thoroughly trowelled. The basement ceiling throughout is to l)e plastered in two good coats of plaster, floated and set in hard sand finish, all well trowelled The mortar for plastering is to he composed of the best quality of lime and cican sharp sand, mixed with an ample quantity of long animal hair, all thoroughly incorporated together. The hard white finish or putty coat is to consist of best plaster of Paris, with a sufficient quantity of washed white sand mixed with same. The lathing on outer walls will not be carried below the top of wainscotting, but the plasterer will float on a second coat of brown mortar over the face of the first rough coat, and will carefully point and flush in around frame and all points where necessary. All the foregoing described plastering is to bc of the very best arid most substantial description and quality, and complete in every respect. The plasterer will provide for and remove all plaster droppings and other plasterers' rubbish and thoroughly clean out the building on completion of the plastering work, doing each room and corridor as the same arc completed.

COMPOSITION BLACKBOARDS 

All the class rooms, eight of them, will have the best description and quality of composition blackboards, made under the directions and super-vision of the Inspector of Public Schools of the city of Toronto. These composition blackboards will extend around the four walls of each class room, excepting 15 ft. in length of the platform end of each class room, which will he composed of slate. The width or height of the composition blackboards will be 3 ft. 6 in. , excepting the 10 ft. in length at the platform end of each class room, which will bc 4 ft. in height. The slate black-boards will be provided and set up by the carpenter, but the plasterer will float the walls at back of same and will finish the composition boards up to and fair and true with the face of the slate. The sum of $150 of the con-tract amount for plastering will be retained by the School Board until the composition blackboards have been properly tested and approved by the Inspector of Public Schools of the city of Toronto, upon whose certificate of the efficiency of the blackboards the above mentioned sum of $150 will be paid to the contractor.

PAINTING AND GLAZING

All dressed woodwork is to be well primed, stopped with oil putty and knotted with best spirit knotting preparatory to the regular painting. For particulars 0f woodwork examine the drawings and read carpenter and joiners specification. All frames and other finished woodwork is to be printed as soon as prepared by the carpenter .. All sash arc to be primed and glazed as scion as fitted by the carpenter, and carefully stored away until ready for hanging. All dressed woodwork inside and outside of building. including all the woodwork of stairs and entrance steps, also all the woodwork of the privy closets and conveniences in basement, is to be painted in the very best manner and style with the best brand of white lead and linseed oil paint colored to choice tints, to be approved by the architects, and as follows, viz.: The woodwork both inside and outside of building (excepting the inside of the basement) is to have (3) three good coats of paint in addition to the priming coat. The woodwork in basement will be panted (2) two good coats of paint in addition to the priming. All galvanized ironwork, including all gutters, down pipes, hips anti rallies, and the deck of roof, is to be painted three good coats of paint, including the priming coat, which is to be of red lead. The woodwork of play sheds, viz., the cornice posts and braces to same, also thc siding and batten to same, is to be painted two good cotta of paint in addition to the priming coat, which is to lie the same as described for the school building. The fence along tire street frontage of school lot. 200 ft. in length and 4 ft. in height, will consist of open picket fence with gates to same and large corner posts, all dressed stuft. This fence will be primed and painted in 3) three good coats of paint, counting tire priming as one coat, and as described for the building. the division fence dividing the play yards will be of dressed stud, close hoard, ft. high. This fence will lie primed and painted same as described for the picket fence. The two front entrance doors to have four coats of paint and well robbed down with pumice stone, and finished smooth and clean. Paint the mouldings around the blackboards extending along both sides and two ends of each class room same as described for other woodwork. The entrance door sills, and the treads of entrance steps and of stairs will be of oak, and the floors to ground and first floor stories will be of hardwood. These door sills, treads of steps and stairs and the hardwood floors to the eight class rooms, and the two main corridors and entrance porches, will be twice coated with linseed oil laid on hot, say at a temperature of at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit, and thoroughly well nibbed in with woolen cloths until the same is hard and dry. Tire stair rails will be well rubbed down and coated with oil as above described, but with three coats of oil. Paint all exposed plumbing pipes and ironwork. Paint the brickwork at back of two false windows two good coats of paint as shall he directed. Provide for anti give the walls of basement throughout, including the brickwork of tire heating anti ventilating apparatus, but excepting the inside of two coal rooms, two good heavy coats of fresh white lime whitewash The painter will clean off all glass and woodwork, &c., which may

have become spotted or stained, &e,, during the operation of painting or

white-washing.

GLASS AND GLAZING.

The glass used throughout tire building is to be of the very best description and quality of selected 16 oz. Diamond Star brand of glass, all well cut in, puttied and b.iek puttied, and finished in very best manner complete. The transom lights over all class room doors, and the glass to glass partitions across the upper corridor, also glass in basement entrance doors and to basement borrowed lights, will be glazed as above described. The sash are to be glazed as soon as fitted, arid left to harden until ready for hanging.

The whole of the painting anti glazing is to be executed with the very best

of materials and in the most thorough and workmanlike manner, and to the entire satisfaction of tire architects in charge of tine works. The tenders for painting truth glai.ing of the school building, sheds and fencing are to provide for and include all tire painting and glazing as specified, allowing for

the work already executed, providing. however, for making good any defects in same so that the whole work shall be a good and work manlike lob and complete in all respects.

BILL OF QUANTITIES.

CARPENTER AND JOINER WORK.

39857 ft. of pine timber (board measure) in joists, rafters, plates, inntels, etc. , and labor in same, as specified - -

9' squares (100 ft.) of 7/8 in. G T flooring, 3 in. wide, of white

	maple, complete	- 

4 3/4 squares of in. G & T flooring, of maple, 6 in. x 2 in. beams (these beams are laid on cement floor) to privy closets, complete	- .	- 

671/2 squares of 1 Vs in. G & T roof boarding, 6 in. wide to main belfry, front and rear porches, etc. , complete - 

91 squares of 7/8 in. rough flooring, no in. wide -	

7 squares of  13997n. maple raised teacher's platform, on 6 in. x 2 in.

	bearers, complete

9! squares of 2 in. X 3 in. and 2 in. x 2 in. strapping, basement

	and ground ceilings, complete

76 3/4 squares oh 2 in. x 2 1/2 in. strapping, ground and first floor

	walls. complete

4 squares of sheeting at basement entrance and upper steps, roof

	complete

275 running ft. of cornice to main roof, complete 

58 running ft. of moulding to gabiets of main roof, complete 

308 running ft. of chained joists, t4 in. x 2 in., 1 1/8 in. packing

pieces spiked together and r in, iron straining rod, 6 in. x

8 in. x 1/2 in. end plates. outs and washers, in. iron holts, 72

	in number, complete

1300 running ft. of 7/8 in. (; & T narrow wainscotting mould cap and plinth, 3 ft. 6 in, in height, complete. 

424 running ft. of nidge rolls and tilting pieces to valleys and eaves,

	complete

70 running ft. of 1 3/4 in. iron gas piping, for hind-rail to main stairs, includes bracket and socket flanges to newel, complete

20 running ft. of pine linth, 14 in. x 10 in. , dressed, trussed on top and with inch iron rods, nuts, washers, etc. , complete 

27 1 3/8 in. stair steps, oak tread and n rest landing, strings, balustrading, V jointed wainscotting, capping, oak hand-rail, includes the balustrading of well, etc. , chamfered posts 6 in. x 6 in. , spandrail, 8 in. x 8 in. turned oak newel, etc. complete

15 basement stair steps, oak tread, strings, balustrading, Vjoinited wainscotting, capping, hand-rail, includes the balustrading of well, etc. , chamfered posts, 6 in. x 6 in., , spandrail, 8 in. x 8 in.

	turned oak newels, etc. , complete	-	.

17 rear basement steps, 2 X 2 oak plank platform and supports, top, uprights, and diagonal rails, 3/4 in. bolts to coping, strings, etc. , complete as above - . -

18 rear entrance steps descending to basement, narrower, 14 in. x

3 in. pine chamfered coping bolted to wall and round oak roll

	planted on top, complete	- - — 

18 front porch entrance steps, 2 in. X 2 in, slatted treads, 1 1/2 in. oak risers, strings, 2 platforms, oak parapets, and moulded

	coping, etc. , completed	- -	-	- 

2 2 3/8 in. front entrance doors, 12 in. x 3 in. frames, lock and other hardware, etc. complete - - 

2 2 1/8 inside porch doors, frames, locks and other hardware,

	etc., complete	— 

1 2 3/8 in. rear entrance door, frame, lock and other hardware, etc., complete - - - 

2 2 1/8 in. basement entrance sash doors, frames, locks and other hardware, etc., complete - 

8 3/4 mu. class room doors, frames and fanlight, steel spring latches and other hardware, etc., complete 

1 2 in. sliding door, jambs, boxing, hardwood stop, in. half round sliding rarl, wheels, etc., complete 

6 1 3/4 in. basement doors, frannes, locks until other hardware, etc., complete 

4 1 in. fottl air chamber and vent shaft thrors, frames, hinges

	and bolts, etc., complete	- 

17 1 3/4 nn. basement windows, frames, hinges, pulleys, earths, plumb bob balance, bolts, etc., complete 

4 horroweil lights, frames, and with vertical iron bars to corridors in basement, etc., complete — 1 1 3/4 in. lange half circle window, frame, mullion bars, etc., complete  small circular sashes to porch and rear gable, etc., complete

42 1 3/4 in, English sashes, ground and first floor, boxed frames, double hung, sash lines, weights, lifts, sash fasteners, etc.,

	complete	—

8 brass pull down hooks and poles, etc., complete	

2 rear porches to basement entrance steps, includes 6 x 6 ill. dressed and chamfered posts, plates, and cross hearers, double sheeting, dressed rafters, faeia and crown moulding,

	etc., complete	— 

48 wrought iron anchors, 36 in. x 2 in, x 1/2 in,, one end turned up

6 in., two in, bolts other crud, etc., complete -

50 in. iron bolts, nuts, etc., to bent plates, etc.. complete

48 ventilating openings in base of wainscotting, wood frames and

   wire cloth screens complete	-

29 privy closets—fit up with risers, seats, hinged covers, i	G &

'1 divisions and screens 36 ft lung, 6 ft 6 in, high capped

3 in. x 3 in. chamfered posts from floor to ceiling, etc., complete 

42 small cupboards in class rooms, flock panel doors in two boxes, locks, fasteners, etc., shelving, mould cornice, etc., complete

oo clothes hooks, and screws, etc , complete -	

1 back board, dressed, to urinal, 6 ft. 3 its, x 15 in. x 1 1/4 in., etc., complete 

'lrionmings to stairs, ventilating stacks, flues, etc., double tusk frames, joists spiked together, 2 in. x in. stirrup pins to stair well, etc., complete 

Trimming for man- hole, framed door, hinged tin top, fasteners and hooks, includes step ladder to same, etc., complete

Bracketting for galvanized iron cornice at belfry, etc., complete Provide anti set all centres for bricklayers, stay frames, ease cut

	stone work as directed, etc., complete	.	-

Carpenter to box in plumber's piping, do all cutting, etc., as required, and attend on other trades, etc., complete 

Temporary doors and fasteners and general rare of building night

	and Sundays	. 

Dressing basement window lintels 2 faces rind basement door 3

   faces, complete	-

Dressing wail face of bond timbers in basement	

1 blackboard on sliding door panel, 6 sheets of 1/8th in. thick leather 30 in, x 16 in., jointed and glued ready to receive composition 

