<doctype type="text">March, 1892	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	33



The upper portion of these stacks is to be parged with Portland cement, say the upper 6 ft. of same. and all the sailing and hose courses, capping and belfry archway, &c. all to he laid in Portland cement, and all the joints and weatherings made and pointed in the moat careful and thorough manner. Provide and build in sheet iron smoke pipe collars, four of them ( 14 in. ) diameter in smoke flues in basement, wire rimmed on the outside and in. deep and rim round same with 1/2 brick arch. Provide and build

ill cast iron plate division between the smoke and ventilating flues in each stack as shown per drawings, extending from the basement floor level to

top of stack above roof. These plates will be 5/8 in. to in. thick, 2 ft. 6 in. wide, and from 2 ft. to 2 1/2 ft. in height, each made with a groove

along the upper edge of each plate. Provide and build in cast iron soot doors and frames to same in bottom of each smoke flue, 14 in. square or larger, and provide and build manhole doorway in bottom of each ventilating flue, say 2 ft. o in. x 4 ft. , arched over and provided with a fine tooled or rubbed stone bead, 6 in. x 14 in. x 3 ft. 6 in. long. Provide and build an air duct under the basement floor in each closet room (two of them) having an area of 12 ft. each inside, and the length required as indicated on drawings. These duets will be about fi. in depth by 4 in. wide, built with picked hard brick and laid in Portland cement mortal ; to have 9 in. wall at one side (the walls of building forming the other side) and to have a brick bottom laid on the flat and grouted with cement. Connect these ducts with the ventilating fine at the bottom of same with an opening 3 ft. x 4 ft., capped over with a tooled stone cap 12 in. x 14 in. x 5 ft. 6 in. in length. The foundation of the walls of building forming one side of these air ducts, and through which the same has to pass to reach the bottom of ventilating stack, are to have the extra depth required for that purpose, viz. , 3 ft. Build all hot air flues leading from the basement up to the ground and first floors as indicated by the drawings to be built in the most careful manner and thoroughly and smoothly parged inside with mortar. Build in all register frames and collars, &c. , furnished by the contractors for heating apparatus and as indicated by the plans of heating. Provide and build in 3/4 in. round by 8 in. long, climbing irons in the brickwork of ventilating flues, every 6th course in height, alternately on each side of flue and placed about in. from one end of same. Also provide and build manhole opening into each ventilating flue immediately above the attic joists, say a ft. in. x 4 ft. high, with two rimmed arches over same on 2 x 54 x 4 ft. iron bar, and set frames to same pointed by carpenter. The rear basement wall will on any future extension of the building become an inside partition wall, and will therefore be built entirely of brick instead of stone, and will be of picked hard burnt brick carefully selected and the face bricks laid in Portland cement. this wall will be 18 in. in thickness, as figured on drawings. Build area walls of picked hard brick to rear entrance and rear basement entrance steps, as shown per drawings ; also brick parapet

walls at side of steps, and provide and build in		in. x 18 in. iron

anchor bolts (27 of them) with	x 4 in. cross piece at	bottom to secure

coping to above walls Provide and build parapet walls of brick to side of front entrance steps, as shown per drawings, and provide and build in. bolts ( 12 in number), 6 to each set of steps to anchor down the coping to same and as described for coping to rear steps. Build all belt, string and sailing courses, pilasters, &c. , to outer walls, as shown per elevations ; also all aprons to underside of window sills, the latter cut and rubbed to shape indicated and as per details to be furnished as required. Build water table plinth to base of brickwork as shown per elevations, with the top course of moulded splayed brick with the top bed of same laid in Portland cement. Arches to window and door openings, also relieving arches in rear wall of building, to be 13 1/2 in. and 9 fl. in height respectively, as indicated by drawing ; to be cut and guaged and with soffits rubbed mind finished in best manner. Turn relieving marches two 1/2 brick rims in height to inside of all window and door openings to have a camber of not less than 6 in., formed on brick cores on toll of straight lintels. Turn brick arches across the corridors on both stories as indicated by dotted lines on drawings, segmental in form and 13 1/2 in. in height. The inside of front porches are to be faced up with picked, ('lean and even colored white brick laid stretcher bond in putty joints and lead jointed, and time inside arches showing in same porches to be finished in same manner; also that portion of outer main wall showing on the inside of porches. The outer face of all external walls (except the face of rear wall) will lie dry tuck pointed in tire very best manner, the. joints being raked out full in. deep as the work progresses, and when ready for tire pointing to be stopped in with putty mortar specially prepared and colored a dark indian red or oilier color to be selected and approved by the architect. 'lire stopping for tuck pointing 'is to he colored with best '' Venetian " red, and a sample piece of the work is to be done and approved by the architects before the regular work is begun. It is to be distinctly understood that a first class job in every respect is required, and that none other will be accepted by tire architects. The face of rear wall is to be laid up with even colored brick with close and true joints and struck with the trowel in a neat and workmanlike manner. Beam filling is to be carried to top of joists and to roof boarding in all bases, and as to latter to be pointed with mortar so as to render time same air tight. Carefully and thoroughly flush into all window and door frames as the brickwork progresses, and carefully preserve the staying of all frames. Build in all bond strips, joists, plates, lintels, wood blocks, &c., required by carpenter, and build chases for water and waste pipes required by plumber. Provide and lay the basement floors throughout with concrete and Portland cement, and as follows, viz.: First clean off time earth floors removing all wood cuttings and other rubbish, and carefully level the ground, grading the same towards the weeping drains: then provide and lay over tire whole surface of floors a bed of fine broken brick and coarse gravel well mixed together, to a depth of at least four inches, all well rammed down ; then over this lay a bed of fine gravel (screened) one inch in thickness mixed with Portland cement in the proportion of one of cement rim three of gravel, and over this float on a coat of Portland cement one inch in thickness mixed with clean sharp sand, in the proportion of (rile to two. The top coat of cement is to be floated to sand and trowelled down to a smooth and level surface throughout, and to lie protected until thoroughly set. The cement floor in each room is to be graded to the centre and provided with a 6 in. cast iron grating connected with the drains underneath to carry oft water when the floors are washed. All the above concrete and cement floors are to be executed with the very best of Port land cement and other materials, and in the most workmanlike and thorough manner. The contractor or contractors are to provide good and sufficient scaffolding, to he approved by the architects, and lie left up for the oilier trades, lie or they will conform to the requirements and provisions of the building by-laws of the city. The chimney stacks art- to be tuck pointed as described for walls, in tire most careful manner, and the stone base and cap set and pointed in Portland cement, As soon as the tuck pointing is done, or sooner if required by the architect, the contractor will remove all bricklayers' surplus materials, and all rubbish and plant from time premises, and will clean imp the lot and such portions of the street fronts used by him, and will also clean out the basement and other flats of the building, removing from same all bricklayers' rubbish, surplus materials and plant, &c, The whole of the bricklayers' work is to be executed in the most thorough and workmanlike manner and complete in every respect, the contractor furnishing all necessary and proper materials, scaffolding, tools and labour, and executing all time works called for by the plans mind specifications, comprehending what might reasonably be implied though not particularly mentioned in the specifications or shown on the drawings.

CUT STONEWORK.

Provide mind set all cut stonework required throughout the building complete in all respects, and as follows, viz. ' : All window sills to be of Credit Valley brown stone, 6 in. x 10 in. , fine tooled and weathered on top  and throated under, but to be rock face on the face and to project 2 in.  from face of brickwork. All windows above the basement and all entrance doors to have 6 in. x 12 in. stone heads of Credit Valley brown stone, fine . tooled on tire softit or under side, and to be back checked mind picked to a  face on the hack side to fit to frames and lintels, but to be left rock faced on the front. The two basement rear entrance doors to have 12 lfl. x 6 in. tooled or rubbed Berea heads. The chimney and ventilating stacks will have 6 in. thick base and cap stone, as shown per elevations and sections to be fine tooled and weathered on the top side and throated under. Cut left rock face on the edges. These cap and bases will be formed in the number of stones each as shown per details, to be cramped and leaded together and the joints set arid pointed with Portland cement, The base stone will form the floor of belfry between tine two vent stacks, and will have a 2 to 3 in. hole thrilled through same. and a piece of 2 in. , 8 lb. lead pipe inserted in same and neatly dressed down and flanged to the stonework, and to pass down about three or four feet below for bell rope to pass through. Provide and set two Berea stone corbels 14 in. x 24 in. x 12 in. to carry the point of main rafters at side oh ventilating stacks to be tooled work. Provide and set fine tooled Berea stone sills to basement entrance doors, 6 in. x 4 ft. 6 in x 18 in. Tire .. sills to rear windows mire to be 0f fine tooled Berea, weathered and throated. Provide and fix inscription stone to front of building 2n in. x 6 in. and 14 ft. 9 in. in length, with the inscription ,, City Public School " cut in same in letters in. high, inch wide and 3/4 in. deep, and capitals 14 in. high, a 1/4 in. wide and inch deep. This stone will be of Credit Valley brown Stone, rock faced on time margin and fine tooled in the centre to receive the lettering. Provide and fix cap stones of rubbed Berea stone 3 in. thick, to cover the top of hot air flue projections on the two rear corners of building. There will be four of these stones, two of them 14 in. x 36 in. and two of them 14 in. X 48 in. , to be weathered on top.

GALVANIZED IRONWORK.

Provide first quality of '' "Iron" " brand or Gospel Oak No, 26 B.W.G. galvanized iron, and form and execute mind complete in time inmost substantial and workmanlike manner all the galvanized ironwork hereinafter described. The deck roof to be covered with galvanized iron formed in long sheets with joints made on 2 in. rolls with caps to same nailed and soldered, and with false or expansion rolls between same. Cross joints to be lock jointed and soldered in best manner. Turn the iron down in. over slate and form moulding at junction of deck and slate roof as per marginal section, all well stayed, nailed and soldered, and with spring or wind seam along the slate apron. Line all vallies with galvanized iron, 20 in. in width, and under same lay one ply of tarred felt 30 in. wide properly nailed down. Lay apron of galvanized iron to all caves 10 in. wide, turned up under slating munch nailed to roof boarding and dressed down into eave troughs. Eave troughs throughout to be oval and fillet shaped, with back to same 4 in. above level of trough, all well secured to facia of cornice with long spikes through-galvanized iron trales. Eave troughs to be well soldered at all cross joints. Down pipes to be Douglas Bros. patent octagon shaped, secured with patent hold fast spikes to brick walls, and to be carried down 2 ft. below grade of ground and hanged and cemented into drain pipes. There will be six stacks of 5 in. octagon down pipes as above described, and two small stacks of same from the front porch roof; also four stacks of 4 in. round down pipe from play-shed roofs, the latter to have shoes to same to waste onto the planking. Tire main roof gutters to be 6 in. moulded, the porch in. do. and the sheds รง in, , all complete. Provide and fix no in. wide cloak flashings to all roofs abutting against brickwork ; also continual aprons where required around time base of the ventilating stacks and belfry, the iron to be tucked one inch into joints of brickwork and wedged with iron wedges, and cemented with Portland cement, and dressed down and fitted neat and close to brickwork, and where practicable to lie stepped with tire brick courses. Provide and fix galvanized Iron creating (moulded) to belfry ridge in accordance with details, and flash same to brickwork ; also moulded eave moulding to same as per drawings. All tire galvanized iron-work is to be executed as expeditiously as the pr-ogress of tire building will admit of, and in the most substantial and workmanlike manner complete in all respects. Provide and cover the man hole ripening in deck roof both sides and top ; sides 12 in. high and top about ft. square with galvanized iron, all fitted and finished in best manner.

SLATING. 

Provide and slate tire roof (excepting those of the play sheds) with the best description of Canadian slate from the Melbourne Quarries. Slates to Ire 10 in. X 20 in.. laid on single ply of tarred felt with double lap leaving 10 in. to the weather. Each slate to be nailed with two galvanized iron) nails, and to be laid with double row at eaves. Trim the slate to a line on both sides of all vallies, and cult and lay all hips with cut close chamfer and point same with slate colored plastic cement. Provide and lay no in. wide step flashings of galvanized iron to mill slating abutting against brickwork, and in most careful manner. Cart-frilly lay and close nail the tarred felting so as to cover tire roof boarding at all points, and lay double straddle thickness of felting over all hips, vallies and ridges. Execute all other work necessary to render time slating complete in every respect. Examine the slating on the completion of tire work of all other trades, and make good any broken or displaced slate, and clean out and remove all broken slate and cuttings (if same from cave troughs and down pipes and vallies. Remove all surplus slate and cuttings. &c., from the premises on completion of the slating. Time belfry roof is to he laid with round tailed red tiles laid in cement and all well cemented at joints and against brickwork,

PLUMBING WORK.

Provide and lay in from street main, clear of frost and with stop and waste cock boxed in mind packed, &c., in. 6 lb. lead water service to basement of building, with separate in. 10 lb. branch service from same to time drinking stands in basement lunch rooms and to ground and first floor corridors, and in) all cases to be carried on neat dressed and moulded boards fastened to wall and ceilings, and where required to be cased in the woodwork provided by carpenter. The service pipes must be arranged so that the. same can be emptied with proper stop and waste cocks. Provide and fix in each lunch room or basement one of Mott's patterns of cast iron enamelled drinking stands, No. 93 pattern, page 42 of Mott's catalogue, 1881 edition, Also provide and fit up in the recess next to ventilating stacks on ground and first floor' corridors, Mott's pattern of cast iron sectional urinals (8 ft. long each) to be used as drinking stands, to be supported on proper dressed boards secured to wainscotting; see Mott's catalogue No. 257-8 pattern, page 127, edition of 1881; these drinking stands to have 5/8 best pattern self-acting spring cocks, nickel plated, two to each stand in) basement and six to each stand on ground and first floors, (16 in all). Each stand to have 1 1/2 in. 6 lb. lead waste and trap and screw

