BUILDER	April, 1892



<doctype type="text">42



















Decoration and Furniture<article title="The arrangement of Mouldings" author="">THE ARRANGEMENT OF MOULDINGS.

IN this article we purpose to show how mouldings should be arranged, according to the place and position they are to occupy. It is evident what in important partmouldings play by the fact of being employed in such different substances. They are used in woodwork, pottery, and stonework, also in jewellery, and are





 















 

















perhaps the chief feature in picture frames, besides being represented in the flat by means of painted lines in such cases as the partitions on vases, painted panels on flat surfaces. etc., ; and wherever a space requires a border, it is often supplied by lines of different thicknesses and depths of space between them.

Let us look at a few positions that mouldings occupy in con nection with the different substances in which they are employ ed. Mouldings are prominent in their use to woodwork with



	









 













 











 

















 



















regard to panelling, and are applied to emphasize the shape of the panels on which they are used. Whenever any size of some what large dimensions is required to be decorated—-and the space is too large to decorate directly—it is usual to panel it up into good proportions by means of mouldings. Again, in buildings they break the monotony by being introduced at the various stages or stories. For inside decoration also, mouldings are used for the cornice, and at the bottom of the dado; in fact, almost everything we look at has mouldings. Cupboards, table legs, and window frames, although we may not have noticed them particularly, are all, more or less, composed of mouldings. If these objects had been plain, we should very soon have noticed the deficiency —hence the value of mouldings.

Figs. 1 to 8 show the various kinds and proportions of the mouldings which we are going to consider. The designing and arranging of all of them are based on these, and it would be as well to remember that each of these belong to one of the following four classes: flat, convex, concave, or compound. A flat moulding is one which neither projects nor recedes. A convex may be any shape (i.e., degree of curvature), if it projects only. A concave moulding is one that recedes, no matter at what angle, whilst a comftound moulding is the combination of a convex and a concave. It is the combination of these different kinds that we are now going to consider, as well as how they should be arranged.

The several names and positions of these are as follows: Fig. i iS called a fillet; it is the smallest moulding, but perhaps the most important one, as it is used to connect one moulding with another. The Tenia (Fig. 2.) is really a large fillet, and forms the Abacus





















 





















 





















 

































































in the Doric Order. The Astragal, shown in Fig. 3, is a convex moulding; its projection is half a circle. Fig. 4 is called a bead moulding, and is like Fig. 3 without the projection, whilst a number of bead mouldings placed together is called a reeding, as shown in Fig. 5.

The Scotia is a very fine example of a concave moulding ; it recedes two-thirds its own height, and the method for obtaining it is shown in Fig. 6 by the clotted lines and xx, which mark the centres of the quarter circles. A compound moulding is the combination of a concave and convex (Fig. 7). It is often divided by a fillet (Fig. 8), which emphasizes the curve and makes effective lights and shadows. it is the difference of projection in these mouldings that makes it necessary to consider whether they should be placed above or below the eye. Fig 6, for example, shows repetitions of the same mouldings, but by comparing a above with a below, it will be seen that the top a makes a capital crowning piece in this position.

Flow of line is the chief consideration in arranging the different kinds of mouldings together, and Fig. 10 shows a much better arrangement than Fig. 11. The reason for this is on account of this flow of line shown by the dotted line, which only in the one case has been regarded.—" H. R. C." in Furniture and De coration.



<article title="Window glass in architecture" author="">WINDOW GLASS IN ARCHITECTURE.

THE papers on "Painted Glass" which were read at the In stitute two or three weeks ago would have been more in place, perhaps, at the Architectural Association. Good enough as far as they went, they did not go far enough to be of much service to practising architects. They told them what they knew a! ready, and little besides. And this was not because the authors had little to tell.—undoubtedly they could, under more favorable conditions, have said a great deal which would have been extremely valuable. But it so happened that most, if not all, of them selected subjects which might well have occupied a whole

