<doctype type="text">April, 1892	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

39



isolated, or strung out in small colonies along concession roads, or again clustered into hamlets and villages, what is known as the water carriage system is by far the most efficacious for the removal of the daily semi-liquid and liquid wastes of she dwelling. By wastes, I mean human excreta, chamber slops, water used for baths, water in which dishes, pots, vegetables, clothes, etc., have been washed, and in fact any water that has been put to a thousand and one of its other uses in a house. We might consider the following as our "plumbing" axioms, and the system with its fixtures, traps, ventilation, and waste pipes, etc., that will conform in the highest degree to them, must perforce be accepted as the best. It is then evident:

Firstly.—That the waste matters generated in the house should be removed at once.

Secondly.—That so far as it lies in our power, -the waste pipe system should be freed from any tendency to retain decomposing matter giving off gaseous products known to be detrimental to health, or these very gases when generated elsewhere.

Thirdly. —That every part of the plumbing should be visible where possible, and conveniently situated as against repairs or accidents.

Fourthly.—That all parts should be of sound materials free from flaws, blemishes, or other defects, and of the kind of material best suited for their special purposes.

 Fifthly.—That the whole system should be put tightly together, in the best approved manner, and possessing uniformity in strength and durability.

Sixthly. —That the whole system should be as simple as possible. consistent with convenience, efficiency, and security.

Seventhly.—That the appliances used should he economical, reliable, and adding materially to the comforts of the inmates of the building.

That the waste matters generated in the house be removed at once, can be attained by having as direct and short a line of waste and soil pipes as possible. Every necessary bend in a line of pipes being made by a regular curve, and never abruptly. Wherever the waste and soil pipes run otherwise than vertically, ample grades should be provided. The smoothness and evenness of the interior of the pipes, along with their size, and also the manner in which they are connected and branched together. having a marked effect on the velocity of discharge.

The use of an inverted T or Y junction for the purpose of effecting a connection between a vertical and horizontal line of pipes, should never be tolerated. The reasons are obvious (see figs. 2, 3). I have actually come across several cases of this on scientific mode of construction.

As there seems to exist, even among writers on sanitation, an uncertainty as to the exact meaning of the terms house drain, soil pipes, waste pipes, etc.. it might not be out of place for us to decide upon their proper application before proceeding further. Let a house be given us, and a hundred feet away the street sewer. (See fig. 4).

Then the system of pipes commencing at the street sewer, running up to the walls of the house, passing through them, and then branching out throughout the building, may he divided into two parts. First, that part outside the street sewer and the outer walls ; and secondly, that part inside the dwelling. The first is known as the house drain, or drain, and conveys to the said street sewer all liquids and semi-liquid wastes, and further, all roof and cellar water that may he trapped into it.

'the second part, inside the dwelling, is again sub-divided into soil pipes, waste pipes, and vent pipes.

Soil pipes, or soil pipes, are those pipes which carry away human excreta, principally from water-closets, and form the main trunks of the plumbing system of buildings. As such, therefore, they almost invariably receive in addition, the wastes from baths, basins, sinks, tubs, etc., that are conveyed to them by the waste pipes of the system.

Laterals to the main trunks, receiving liquid excrets from hoppers and urinals, are called soil pipes only in a secondary sense, while vent pipes form that part of the system which does not convey waste waters or sewer age of any kind, but is intended to afford free ventilation to the different parts, and to the syphoning of traps Such portion of the soil pipe as may be found above the highest fixtures, however, and there for no other purpose than that of ventilation, curiously enough retains the name of soil pipe, and does not come under the classification of vent pipes.

We therefore have waste pipes in connection with all fixtures, save those into which human excreta may be emptied. These waste pipes may either enter the house drain independently, or join the soil pipe and discharge their liquid wastes into it.

Soil pipes again may convey excreta alone, or all the wastes of the house to the drain beyond the walls, while at the same time acting as the main ventilating shafts of the system, since their upper ends are always left open and carried well above the roof.

Lastly, the house drain, or simply drain, conveys to the sewer all liquid and semi-liquid wastes placed beyond the walls of the building by the soil and waste pipes.

It must be understood that we have simply considered these terms as applied to house plumbing, and house drains, and not as in the subject of land drainage, nor as in certain of she distinctions used in what is known as the

Separate System of Sewerage."

(To be Continued.)





<article title="How to select a site for a country house" author="">HOW TO SELECT A SITE FOR A COUNTRY HOUSE.

THERE are no definite rules, of course, that will always apply to the selection of a site for the house. Usually it should not be placed exactly in the middle of a place, or close to the front, and it should associate itself in some way with some considerable plantation of trees that may already exist.

I am speaking of considerations that must be met in a systematic way, and more or less in accordance with the best practice of the art of landscape gardening. But avoid being too conventionally artistic. Use common sense, and first of all make your grounds comfortable and convenient; then do what you can for the aesthetic. The latter may, in your opinion, be of the most importance, but the former, be sure, will, sooner or later, revenge itself upon you for any undue neglect.

I am speaking now of all country places, meaning thereby a lot that may be only 25 feet by too feet, or may be five or six acres. In any case you are devising a picture when you under take to lay out your grounds, even in the most simple fashion and any arrangement that will develop and present with the best effect the most artistically valuable features, should be invariably chosen, though at first it may seem odd, and not in accordance with your conventional ideas of landscape gardening art. An evident attempt at mere oddity is, of course, bad, and destructive of the harmony of the general arrangement; but there

may he an unusualness

of treatment that seems odd, though in reality effective and harmonious, simply because it is conventional.

Against one thing let me warn the reader, and that is the indiscriminate use of form al foliage or flower-beds on most lawns They are apt to lend a garish and vulgar air

to the place. Close to

 the house you may sometimes use one or two of these beds, but their bright red

and yellow colors should be set a little on one side and not allowed to glare at one too much. I respect the universal delight in rich color, but all formal patches of color should be used carefully and in proper telations to the whole picture.-—Samuel Parsons, Jr., Supt. of Parks, New York, in March Scribner.



<article title="Points about advertising" author="">POINTS ABOUT ADVERTISING.



<person>John Wanamaker, </person>who can claim to speak from experience says : "I never in my life used such a thing as a poster or dodger, or handbill. My plan for fifteen years has been to buy so much space in the newspaper and fill it up with what I wanted. I would not give an advertisement in a newspaper of 500 circulation for 5,000 dodgers or posters. If I wanted to sell cheap jewelry or run a gambling scheme I might use posters, but I would not insult a decent reading public with handbills. The class of people who read such things are poor material to look to for support in mercantile affairs. I deal directly with the publisher. I say to him 'How long will you let me run a column of matter through your paper for $100 or $500? as the case may be. I let him do the figuring, and if I think he is not trying to take more than his share I give him the copy. I lay aside the profits on a particular line of goods for advertising purposes. The first year I laid aside $3,000; last year I laid aside and spent $40.000. I have done better this year and shall increase that sum as the profits warrant it. I owe my success to the newspapers."



Mr. <person>King Arnoldi</person>, of Ottawa, recently secured judgment against the School Board of Vankleek Hill, Ont., for the amount of his fees for preparing plans for the new school at that place.

