<doctype type="text">May, 1892	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	49



<article title="How to estimate" author="Hodson, W.H.">HOW TO ESTIMATE.

By <person>W. H. HODSON</person>.



Below are printed specification and bill of quantities for excavator, mason and bricklayer, accompanying working drawings of <building>Baptist Church, Walmer road, Toronto</building>, appearing in this number.

EXCAVATOR, MASON AND BRICKLAYER.

Erect the necessary hoarding in accordance with city by-laws. All vegetable mould to be put to one side for top dressing. Excavate the ground as required for the basement, footings of walls, piers and buttresses, and for drains. Excavation to be 9 in. clear of walls to permit of pointing and inspection. Fill in and ram to walls after inspection; level to grade shown. Any soil not required for levelling to be removed from premises. Execute drainage as shown with approved salt glazed vitrified pipe of Scotch or American manufacture, jointed in Portland cement and laid to proper fall with all necessary bends, traps, junctions, etc., complete. Put McGuire's cleaning out trap with connection for cleaning carried to within one foot of surface of cellar. Lay weeping drains, as shown, in boiler pit connected with main drain behind proper glazed pipe trap. Connect drain with sewer in street, paying all fees. Footings of walls to be of large flat stones not less than 6 in. in thickness and 4 in. on each side wider than the work above, and to extend to at least half the width of wall above. The footings of large piers carrying train columns to be in two courses of stone of approved quality, 8 in. thick and not more than two stones to each course. Footings of main chimneys to be similar, with not more than three stones to each course. The footings of tower to be similar. The bottom stones to be in length the full width of footing (5 ft.) and not less than ft. wide, the next course to be similar, 4' 2" long, and the next 3' 4" long. All to be of even thickness, fiat on bed and set on a one inch bed of one-third Portland cement mortar. All the footings of main walls and piers to be set in mortar of similar description. The stone walls above finished ground line on north and rear elevations and corridor to be finished with a narrow course of brown Credit Valley stone neatly pointed with brown mortar. The walls on east and west elevations and part of north, as shown, up to level of ground floor window sills, to be faced with the best Credit Valley brown stone in courses of varying heights, and well bonded into wall behind with at least one bond stone to each superficial yard of walling. Stones to be boldly rock faced with narrow margin drift at angles and laid up in dark brown mortar (Cabot's or Pecora) with deeply sunk joint. The walls above coursed work (on east and north elevations) as tinted brown, to be of brown Credit Valley stone in random ashlar work of most approved description, well bonded into brick backing and laid till in similar mortar with similar joint as above. No stone to be more than 9" in height and a preponderance of long thin stone to be used. The reveals and weatherings to be neatly chiseled, and angles to be finished with narrow margin drift. The walls above the stone work to he carried up in good brick work, composed of the best hard burned bricks laid to the best prepared mortar, well flushed up. The outside to be faced with best machine moulded dark red bricks of even color, laid English bond in dark brown mortar, similar to that for stone work, having a deeply sunk joint. The inside of porch and vestible at rear to be faced with similar bricks of lighter color in the dado, quoins, etc., and with picked white bricks in the walls, all laid American bond and to harmonize with work in present school building. The red bricks of the interior to be laid up in mortar colored with Cabot's red mortar stain, and the white bricks with mortar colored with Cabot's yellow mortar stain, all finished with a neat bead tool joint. - The internal window sills to be finished with a course of plinth bricks. The capping of dado to be a plinth brick reversed. The walls of porch and vestibule to be hollow and two half bricks thick. Outer face to be well parged. Tie the half brick walls with stout hoop iron every fifth course and about one foot apart iron to be bent thus and dipped in tar. 1 be obiter 9" walls of dressing rooms and vestry to be built English bond. The walls of church to be also built with a 2" cavity tied with hoop iron as before mentioned, the inside face of outer wall to be carefully parged. The inside walls of auditorium, front vestibule, north stairway and tower (two stories) to be faced with No. I pressed bricks in the very best and most workmanlike manner, laid up in English bond with a narrow joint in putty mortar to harmonize in color with the bricks. The dado, the moulded bricks in jambs and arches of the west end and the belts and friezes at east end to be executed with pale brown bricks equal to sample in the architect's office, the walls above dado to be faced with bricks of a yellowish buff tone equal to sample shown. The capping of dado, the angles, jamba, sills, arch bricks and labels as shown to be executed with moulded bricks of approved design ; supply moulded bosses, returns or stops where required. State reduction if all pressed brick work inside (except fireplaces) be omitted and walls (of hollow and similar thickness) left rough for plastering. The jamba, arches and labels of the three entrances in east elevation, windows adjoining and three windows above to be executed with No. I pressed and moulded dark brown bricks of approved design laid up in mortar of harmonizing color. The labels over windows in south elevation to be of moulded pressed bricks finishing to moulded stops. There will also be moulded stops to labels of three windows on east elevation. Dentil bricks at eaves of staircase to be moulded and pressed, jambs of staircase windows to be simply rounded.

Brick piers in cellar to be of hardest grey or red bricks, built perfectly solid and having neatly struck joints. The walls of boiler pit to be built with similar bricks in 4" stone footings, joints to be neatly struck. Carry up flues as shown, properly parge the same, and provide and build in cast iron slides to give access for cleaning smoke flues. Provide and build in 15" collar in smoke flue with chimney stack. Form fireplaces as shown, those in church to be faced with No. 1 pressed brick of color to harmonize with dado, and having moulded brick courses as shown. Turn arches on wrot. iron camber bars. Form ash dumps properly parged and furnished with cast iron soot doors in cellar. Build brick trimmer arches and level up with concrete to within 1 of finished floor line. Build vent flues from below ceiling of gallery as shown, two to be carried up in walls of tower into pinnacles, two in south side to he carried into pinnacles of transept, that in north side to be carried into flue in vestry chimney stack, and that at n. e. staircase to be carried tip to eave line. The openings in inside to be filled with 12" x 18" white enameled valve registers provided and set by mason.

Arches to windows and doors, &c., to be cut and gauged, Turn proper relieving arches over all openings of at least two rings. Thoroughly clean down all walls (the internal ones with acid), removing all stains or defects, cutting out and replacing any discolored or broken brick, and leaving all perfect on completion. Bed in mortar all wood slips, wood bricks, stone or other work required to he set in the masonry or brickwork. The walls of vestry and dressing rooms will have strips built in for securing battens. Bed in mortar all lintels, plates, etc., and carefully point round all window and door frames. Cut all necessary grooves for flashing, and point up as required. Beam fill on all walls to underside of roof and floor boarding. Build areas of bard bricks in stone footings and pave with brick on fiat. Build in carpenters' bolts for copings. Provide good and sufficient scaffolding which is to remain for the use of other trades as required. Take every

precaution to prevent walls being discolored from splashings from scaffolding. Form foundation for boiler, say 40 x 12 ft. with flat stone 4" thick and on this lay hardest clinker bricks set on edge in sand and well flushed. Lay the boiler pit with similar bricks set in a 4" bed of sharp sand. The coal and ash pit and space adjoining as tinted grey will be concreted. Excavate in additional depth to allow for boiler. Form foundation with stone chips 6" deep and on this lay concrete floor 3" thick formed with coarse gravel, coarse sand and Portland cement in proper proportions and floated to a smooth and even surface. Provide and set on brick piers under the eight main columns squared and dressed approved stone 32" x 32" x 12" thick. The piers carrying six small gallery columns to be coped with approved stone 8" thick and those carrying beams with stones 4" thick. All to have dressed beds and to be correctly squared. Provide similar stones 8' x 12' x 4" under beams when resting on walls. Cope walls of ash and boiler pit with approved stone 9 in. x 4 in. thick in long lengths, dressed and carefully set in Portland cement. Cope chimneys with Credit Valley or other approved brown stone 9 in. thick, and in not more than two pieces to each stack, cramped and set in Portland cement. Sills of basement windows to be of Credit Valley stone (brown where exposed). Sills of vestry and dressing room windows may be executed in Berea or brown stone of approved quality, seated, weathered, throated and rock-faced. The heads, strings and sills of all other windows to be executed in the best description of Credit Valley brown stone, free from all flaws and defects, tooled or chiselled as may he directed, weathered, seated and throated. Sills at random work may he rock faced. The steps and landing at main entrances to be of same Beren or equally approved stone, carefully set in long lengths in Portland cement and joints thoroughly flushed. The coping of parapet of front gable to be of approved brown Credit Valley stone in long lengths, set in Portland cement and weathered. tooled and throated as directed. The carving of the four bosses at entrances and the finial on coping is reserved. Prepare for carving as required. The eight corbels, side walls under principals, and the two corbels at the east end carrying foot of principals, the four corbels under iron beams at tower and staircase openings, the four corbels under gallery brackets, the cornice at spring of arches at west end, and the heads of two fireplaces to be of light brown stone of approved description, moulded and rubbed. Sills and exposed stonework to he boarded over immediately upon being set.

	BiLL OF QUANTITIES.

	EXCAVATION AND DRAINAGE.	$	C.

Board fence, etc., as per city by-laws	-	-

1100 cubic yards of excavation, basement walls, piers, buttresses and drains; includes filling, ramming, levelling, etc., etc.

101 lineal yards of vitrified pipe drain; includes bends, traps,

	junctions, etc.	- -	-	-	-

13 lineal yards of 4 10. weeping drain, complete - -

Provide 9 in. continuation drain from sewer to street line at per lineal yard, complete, paying fees for same -

x McGuire's cleaning out trap with connections	-	-

NOTE.—Excavations are measured "cube," that is, length, breadth and depth, thus: ft. in. x 22 ft. 6 in. x 5 ft. 6 in. =equal to 6775 ft. in. divided by 27, the number of feet in a cubic yard, gives 251 cubic yards, less (1 ft. 8 in). Tile drains are measured lineal, that is, running measure, as indicated in above items.

MASONRY AND CUT STONE.	$ C.

157 toise of masonry, complete, including the footing laid in

	cement	- -	- -	-

2080 supl. ft. of coursed Credit Valley brown stone, varying heights pointed in brown mortar, includes margin, draft. etc., chis

	eled reveals	- -	- -	-

20 supl. yards of foundation to boiler. 6 in. stone chips and 

	in.	thick concrete, smooth surface	-	- -

131 lineal ft. of narrow coursed Credit Valley stone, pointed

	in brown mortar	-	-	-	-	-

72 lineal ft. of Credit Valley brown stone coping in long lengths

	set in cement	-	- -	- -

50 lineal ft. of Credit Valley brown stone coping, parapet of front gable, long lengths, set in cement - - -

18 Credit Valley cut stone sills, 6 ft. 6 in., weathered, throated

	and seated	-	- -	-	-	-

7 Credit Valley cut stone sills, 5 ft. o in., weathered, throated and

	seated	-	-	-	-	-	-

5 Credit Valley cut stone sills, 3 ft. 6 in., weathered, throated and

	seated	-	- -	- -

10 Credit Valley cut stone sills, 2 ft. 6 in., weathered, throated

	and seated	- -	-	-	-

7 Credit Valley cut stone sills, 2 ft. o in., weathered, throated and

	seated	-	-	-	-	-

8 column stones, 32 in. x 32 in. x 12 in.	-	. -

6 coping stones to gallery columns, 8 in. thick, dressed -

6 coping stones to beams, 4 in. thick, dressed - - -

8 stones for beam rests, 12 in. x 8 in. x 4 in., dressed -

2 coping stones of Credit Valley to chimneys, in two pieces, set in

	cement and cramped	-	-	-	-

26 light brown stone corbels front of principals, spring of arches,

	etc., etc,	-	-	-	-	- -

 boss stones (for carving) and finial	-	-	-	-

2 Berea stone steps and landing, main entrances, in long lengths

	set in cement	-	-	- . -

 double footing stones in cement mortar under iron pillars -

Boiler foundation, 480 ft. of fiat stone 4 in. thick, covered with hardest clinker brick set on edge ; well flushed - -

NOTE—Masonry is measured cube and the totals of dimensions added together, divided by 86, the number of cubic feet in a toise. The French measure per toise being 6 ft. x 6 ft. X 2 ft., equivalent to 6 ft. 4 1/2 in. x 6 ft. 4 1/2 in. x 2 ft. 1 14789n. English measure, the French foot being 3/4 of an inch longer than one foot English. Cut stone facing measured superficial, that is, square, thus: 5 X 5 gives 25 ft.

	BRICKWORK.	$ C.

60,000 (A2) best hard burnt brick, with white, red and plinth, to sills, and reverse to dado, a proportion of pressed and pale brown brick equal to sample bricks, etc., smooth jointed -

27,500 machine made bricks, laid in brown mortar, tied with hoop iron at cavity - - - - -

6,100 (At) red and white and pressed brick facing to porch and vestibule - - 

2,900 hardest grey bricks to piers- - - - -

2,300 bricks, moulded for dado capping, angles, jamba, sills, arches. lables, etc., etc. - - - - -

1,000 dentil moulded and pressed bricks to stair case window

170 hardest clinker bricks to boiler pit, on bed of sharp sand

23 supl. yds. of concrete, to coal and ash pit - -

800 hoop iron ties dipped in tar - - - -

50 relieving arches, double rims, throughout building - -

