<doctype type="text">	50	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER.	May, 1892



4 12 in. X 18 in. enameiled valve registers, complete - $ c

	2 cast iron slides to smoke flues	- - - 

	2 15 in. collars to smoke flues	- - - 

Arches over two fire places and wrought iron camber bars Ash dumps and cast iron soot doors in cellars - Trimmer arches and concrete to within 1 1/2 in. from floor -

Vent flues from gallery ceiling, two to he carried up into wall of tower and one in vestry; chimney stack up to eave line

Cleaning down walls, removing stains and defects, bedding timbers, building in strips for battens, pointing to windows and door frames grooving for flashing, beam filling, bolts for

	coping, etc., etc., complete	- -	- 

Scaffolding as required and remaining for other trades -

Deduction if A 1 and 2 is not carried out - -	A 1 deduction, pressed brick omitted and instead left rough for

	plasterer	-	-	-	-	- 

A 2 deduction, pressed brick omitted and instead left rough for

	plasterer - - - - 

NOTE.—Brickwork is measured cube and in Montreal the number of bricks given in estimating is 20 bricks to the cube foot, and is ascertained thus:

6 bricks long say 4' 0"

	9	high" 2, 0"

	8' 0" =divisor.

 brick thick



8 162 j 20 to the foot.





The openings are measured and deducted from the solid work. Concrete when not deep is measured by the superficial yard, thus : 3 ft. X 3 ft. gives one yard. Concrete in heavy work is measured cube, ft. X 3 ft. X 3 ft., or 27 ft. to the cubic yard. Arches, etc., are given in numbers and other items noted as above.

(To be Continued.)









Sanitation Heat Light



<article title="Ventilation" author="Fuller, Thomas">VENTILATION. *

SOME extracts from various reports of scientific men on the subject of the ventilation of Halls of Assembly which from many years of study I believe to be the best solution of a very difficult problem:

Two systems of ventilation so far appear to have been adopted, viz., the upward or the downward exhaust.

The fundamental principles of ventilation are:

1st. Heated air is relatively lighter than colder air, and will continue to ascend and the cold air to descend so long as they are flee to move.

2nd. More or less than a given quantity of air practically considered cannot occupy an apartment and cannot be introduced unless an equal quantity be withdrawn, or withdrawn unless an equal quantity be introduced.

These two simple and self-evident propositions will explain nearly all the phenomena observable in ventilation. The first method adopted by engineers and architects to give movement to air for the ventilation of mines and buildings was to heat an upflowing column, thus lessening its specific gravity and causing it to rise with corresponding force. That system was employed in the <building>British Houses of Parliament</building>, where in many of its towers a charcoal fire was kept burning and thus a force obtained to propel the air through the building. It has been practically demonstrated, however, that one pound of coal burned in the furnace of a steam boiler to drive a fan blower will generate as much force and consequently is capable of producing as strong a current of air as 38 pounds expended in heating a column of air to act by its diminished gravity. If heated air is introduced into an apartment containing air at a lower temperature through registers at the floor, it rises rapidly to the ceiling, and if there are openings at the ceiling it escapes without (except in a very slight degree) mixing with the air in the apartment. The air that passes off in this manner is absolutely lost and the heat imparted to it wasted. It does not remove the vitiated air contained in the lower part of the apartment, it does not form with it a homogeneous mixture and does not communicate to it more than a small portion of its heat.

But if, instead of escape openings at the ceiling they are placed at the floor, the phenomena observed will be widely different. The heated air will as before rise to the ceiling, but instead of escaping, will press the colder air downward to the exit ducts and fill the apartment with pure warm air; the air vitiated by breathing will at once sink below the level of the mouth and in a few seconds will be carried off, no accumulation of foul air being possible.

Various opinions are given as to the amount of fresh air necessary to render the products of transpiration and respiration innocuous: These estimates made by distinguished observers vary from 2 to 50 cubic feet per minute. These estimates and are generally based upon the hypothesis that the fresh air introduced into an apartment mixes uniformly and homogeneously with the vitiated air and dilutes it to an extent to render it innocuous but if instead of mixing with the air of the apartment, the warm pure air should rise to the ceiling and escape, all conclusions based on the hypothesis of homogeneous mixture would be fallacious. If the air that has once been respired could be immediately



*	Paper by <person>Thomas. Fuller</person>, Chief Architect, Dominion Board of Works, read by <person>Mr. Billings </person>at the Second Annual Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects

removed without being the second time taken into the lungs, it is obvious that so far as respiration is concerned no more need be introduced into an apartment than can be breathed; this amount is easily calculated.

At a temperature of from 65" to 70 Fahrenheit the following average results are given by <person>Dr. Wetherill </person>for the respiration of an adult: Number of respirations per minute, 20; cubic inches of air inhaled at each respiration, 20; cubic inches per minute,

400.	The carbonic acid exhaled is stated to be 15 cubic inches per minute, and the surrounding air vitiated is 2 1/2 cubic feet per minute. Four hundred cubic inches is less than one fourth of a cubic foot and this is all that can be taken into the lungs per minute.

The House of Representatives at Washington is provided with 60 cubic feet per man per minute, and yet the vitiated air is not removed. The quantity of air introduced is twenty times as great as the quantity that could be vitiated by respiration provided there was a homogeneous mixture. The facts which are daily observed prove that such a homogeneous mixture does not exist under the present system. If nineteen-twentieths of the heated air which enters the apartment escapes without being utilized, it follows that nearly all the fuel consumed in heating it has been wasted.

In the process of respiration 15 cubic inches of carbonic acid per man per minute are ejected from the lungs. This gas in course of time would diffuse itself throughout the apartment, but it is well known that its density is so great that it can be poured from one vessel into another, or if poured into an inclined trough it will flow downwards, extinguishing successively a row of lights.

The specific gravity of this gas is 1.52 or 52 per cent. heavier than air. Its tendency would therefore be when exhaled to sink below the level of the mouth and occupy the lower portions of an apartment near the floor, but it has been supposed that the elevated temperature at which it is projected from the lungs causes this gas to rise and escape at the roof; the fallacy of such an opinion can, however, be readily proved. Even if the temperature at which carbonic acid escapes from the lungs should be so elevated as to render it momentarily lighter than the surrounding air, it would soon part with the excess of heat and then seek the level due to its superior density—but in fact under the condition of things which actually exists there is only 20" difference in temperature between the air when first expelled from the lungs and that of the apartment. As air increases in volume 1-460 of its bulk for each degree of Fahrenheit, the effect of increasing the temperature 20" would be to reduce the specific gravity less than ten per cent., and the carbonic acid upon leaving the lungs would still be 40 per cent. heavier than the air of the apartment. It would seem impossible for this dense gas to rise to the ceiling and escape at that level without a violation of the laws of pneumatics, unless by powerful mechanical means.

Dr. Wetherill reports that each flame of gas consumes as much oxygen and gives out as much carbonic acid as five human beings.

<person>General Morin </person>reported that a ventilation of 14 1/2 cubic feet per man per minute principally downward left no perceptible odor in a lecture room, while the upward ventilation of the Halls of Congress with 6o cubic feet per minute, is notoriously defective.

As regards the direction the products of respiration take after leaving the body, the evidence in support of the tendency to rise is from a report from the Smithsonian Institution ; its author seems to have smoked a pipe at the Institute and the smoke ascended—but the objection to this experiment is that tobacco smoke is not one of the ordinary products of respiration. The experiment does not prove that the gray smoke which was seen to rise was carbonic acid. The experimenter does not state in what direction were the ventilating currents in the apartment or how produced, and there was nothing in the experiment to prove that with a gentle downward ventilation the smoke would not have moved downward instead of upward—in fact it .proved nothing at all in reference to the direction of the products of respiration.

<person>Lewis L. Leeds </person>quite agrees with General <person>Herman Haupt </person>in conclusions both as to theory and the necessity for putting in practice a system of exhaust for ventilation from the floors of the house, and says very extensive practice and close observation for many years past have fully convinced him that the human breath, which is the great source of contamination tends first towards the floor in a still room of 70", and that there is a probability in a closely occupied room that there will be quite an excess in the accumulation there. This applies to rooms warmed exclusively by heated air. The contrary opinion—that is the assumption that the breath and the impurities exhaled from the body rise to the ceiling and accumulate there-—was advocated strongly in the ventilation of the English House of Parliament, and it is reported that some two or three millions of dollars were spent in endeavoring to heat and ventilate that building comfortably, and as the proceedings in regard thereto were spread over the world to an extent probably one hundred times greater than any previous publication or action in regard to ventilation of any public building, that theory of ventilation became strongly impressed upon the public mind as being the correct one. I consider that idea erroneous, hence all theories of ventilation based upon it are consequently wrong, In the majority of our rooms the heated air entering (which, of course,

