<firm>THE CUELICH SILICA BARYTIC STONE CO.

OF ONTARIO, LIMITED



</firm>WATERPROOF FLOORS

<doctype type="text;ad">June 1892 Canadian Architect and Builder 632 13/8 in. swing entrance panel door veneered with black ash, hard- $ c.

	ware, etc., complete		- -	-	-	-

2 21/8 in. rear porch door, framed and filled with 7/8 in. matched

   and beaded boards, hardware, etc.. complete	-	-

6 13/4 in. panel doors, from church to rear	vestibule, for	glass.

   vestibule to church and vestry, finer plates, hardware,		etc.

   complete - - - -	-	 -

2 platform doors, hardware, etc. complete -	- 	-

 13/4 panel doors in vestry and dressing room, complete -

 doors to lavatories 6 in. up from floor, etc.. complete -

 basement doors and 1 large borrowed light, hardware, etc.,

	complete	- -	-	- -	-

 sliding doors, per plans, hardware, etc., complete -7 21/8 sashes, stops for lead glazing, sash, cord, pullies, weights,

	etc., complete	-	- -	-	-	-

6 21/8 sashes over same, south elevation	-	-	-

 windows (English) to vesiry arid dressing room complete -

 windows, church towers and vestibules, stops for lead lights and heads, fillets inside and out, ventilator, etc., complete -

25 basement windows and wire guards complete	-	-

36 clere story windows complete			- -		 -

a large brie! window, north	elevation,	complete - 

a pulpit platform, panelling round		stiles, mould cap		and	bases,

   steps, etc., complete -		-	- -		-

1 2 in. plank coal bin -	-	 -	-	-	 -

Trimmers for registers, and cut for steam fitters pipes, etc., attend on other trades and leave work complete , - -

Straps, iron rods, nuts and washers, stirrups, bolts, spikes, etc.,

	in the above work as specified	-	-	- -

Add $100. for contingencies, (if not required deducted at final) N0TE.—Beginning with bearing timbers, (undressed) the measure, thus:

joist 30 ft. x 10 in. X 3 in.=equal to 6 ft. 3 in. cube—to bring into board measure multiply by 1 (for a foot square) gives the board measure 75 feet. Flooring, roof boarding, studding, furring, &c., measured length and breadth, thus: 25 ft. x 16 ft. gives=400 ft., equal to 4 squares of 10 ft. x 10 ft. Lineal measure of running feet applies to cornices and dressed work generally, the sizes stated either in quantities or specification. Items in numbers, such as doors, windows, &c., as above.

IRON FOUNDER.

2 34 in. metal columns under pulpit platform 4 in. diameter - $ c.

6 5/8 in. metal columns under gallery moulds and ornaments 4 in.

	diam	- .	- -	-



 3/4 in. metal columns on ground floor, to in. diar, caps and

	plinths	-	- -	- -	-	-

a beam 22' 6" long, 40 lbs. to the foot	-	-	-

a beam 11' 6" long, 16lbs. to the foot	-	-

2 pairs rolled iron girders 211/2 lbs. to the	foot		-

Yokes, bolts, ornamental washers, drill	for	screws,	etc., as

	required	- -	- -	-	- -

GALVANIZED IRON WORK.

 lineal ft. of 5 in. No. 28 G. iron gutters, branches, etc.,

	complete	- -	- -		- -

380 lineal ft. of octagon G. iron down pipes, 3 in.	-

150 lineal ft. of No. 28 G. iron ducts, stays, etc. - -

2 squares (too ft.) No. 28 G. iron covering, belfry floors, cement

	ed, and shoot to over church roof	-	-

2 galvanized iron skylights, ventilators opened by cords and pullies

 ornamental registers, gratings to ventilating ducts 

1 G. iron shields to duct opening and brackets complete -

Flashing to walls at duct, and projections lopped, tucked and soldered - - - NOTE—The measurements for this work as given above, lineal.

SLATER.

193/4 squares (too ft.) dark red tile covering walls, roof of pinnele, $

	etc., approved	-	-	-	- 

75 squares (zoo ft.) Rockland slating on 1 ply tarred felt -

50 lineal ft. G. iron valleys, 15 in. wide	

140 lineal ft. flashing clere story covering sills, etc., -

152 lineal ft. of step and cloak flashing, chimnies, tower, gables,

	etc., complete	- -	- 

too lineal ft. of slate weathering, west elevation	-		-

a saddle covered with G. iron at tower -		-	 -

a terra cotta finial bolted to wood work - - -

Repairing and making good after other trades - - -NOTE.—Measured, and contents given in squares, before mentioned

lineal measure, also, and the sizes as above.





<article title="Hydraulic cements—natural and artificial their comparative values" author="">HYDRAULIC CEMENTS—NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL

THEIR COMPARATIVE VALUES.

(Continued from May Number.)



To be sure, the Portland costs twice as much, but it tests twice as high:

therefore it is to be expected to cost accordingly. We are apt to lose sight of the fact that both classes of cements sells for just about the same price at the mills, and that the increased cost of Portland is due to ocean freights, duties, dock charges and importers' profit, and even the most zealous advocate of Portland cement cannot claim that these charges can, in anyway, enhance the intrinsic value of that cement. But higher price generally means better quality and hacked by the testing machine, the engineer is perhaps justified in his opinions.

The testing machine is a good thing if put to its legitimate use. it is the abuse of it that we object to. It should occupy a subordinate place. if this were thoroughly understood, all would be well, but unfortunately the resquisites to a thorough understanding of a proper use of the machine re quires more time and study than it does to learn to make and test a bri







quette. It consists in knowing something of the chemistry of a cement ; in knowing what a table of analysis means ; in having a knowledge of true combining proportions, and the effect of variations therefrom. Then the testing machine becomes a valuable auxiliary, for its readings will then have taken on a new meanimig. The student will find that many of the rules and regulations governing tests, that have been built up within the past few years, are unsound and need revision.

The testing machine reveals many curious freaks, and taken on the principle that "Everything is for the best." it may yet reveal to us that a cement may test too high, that this modern demand for high-testing cement and the tremendous struggle on the part of the Portland cement manufacturers to supply it. striving by every conceivable means to beat the record, is all wrong.

This may sound strangely at first, but a study of the tables of long-time tests of Portland cements, as complied by such engineers as Clarke, of Boston, and MacClay, of New York, and others eminent in the profession, reveals the rather startling fact that briquettes of neat Portland do not test as high at 3 or 4 years as they do at a or 2 years old. Clarke says: "They become brittle with age and are apt to fly into pieces under comparatively light loads." If this is the result with neat cement at that age, what is to pre vent the same results with sand mixtures at 15 to 20 years or so? 1 have seen walks that were made with Portland cement concrete remain in perfect condition for 8 years, and during the ninth year go all to pieces. An examination of the broken pieces shows the concrete to be exceedingly hard bit brittle.

The ten years' tests of Portland cement made by <person>Dr. Michaelis </person>of Berlin, show that the maximum strength was reached at the end of two years, and this point held fairly well until the end of the seventh year, but from that time until the end of the tenth year there was a remarkable falling off in values. We do not recollect ever having seen any table of long-time tests of Portland cement that did not exhibit similiar results, and it is more than probable that it may yet be shown that our natural, slow-setting American cement may, in 10 or 12 years' tests, surpass any artificial cements, The excellent condition of some of our old work, done many years ago With American cements, would seem to indicate as much.

At all events, we have no proof that the Portland is superior in matter of durability, and we do not beleive that clay and lime can be suddenly thrown together, and kept there by any skill of man, that can in any rnannei compare with the staying qualities as found in first-class natural cements where the clay and lime have existed in the most intimate contact for countless ages,

During the past summer the engineer in charge of the Aberdeen harbor sea works, reported a serious failure in the Portland cement concrete work at that point; after only 15 years immersion it went to pieces, while the natural cement concrete, at the same place and same age, was in good condition. He states that every care had been taken in the Portland concrete used; the cement had withstood the mechanical tests, and the concrete had set hard. After a thorough examination by a Board of Engineers, assisted by <person>Professor Brazier</person>, of Aberdeen University, it was concluded that "Port land cement cannot resist the action of sea water." The Protessor further states that "A chemical action had taken place between the sea water and the Portland cement in the concrete, causing an expansion and softening of the concrete." The harbor engineer also reported that "the Portland cement concrete entrance walls of the dock had expanded 23/4 inches in the height of the walls, and their surfaces had cracked and bulged, and the joints of the caisson Quoin-stones had opened up, causing considerable leakage."

Another case is that at the harbor of Dundee, reported upon during the past summer. In this instance the Portland cement concrete had softed in sea waler and natural cement was used to protect it if possible from further distastes.

The investigations of <person>Professor Tetmajer </person>of the Federal Polytechnical School at Zurich, developed some interesting information. It has long been noticed in Germany that Portland cement of certain kinds, when exposed for several years to the air, loses its consistency and crumbles. This danger had become so serious that the German Minister of Public Works issued a circular in 1885, restricting within narrow limits, the use of Portland cement in work exposed to the air.

	 Since that time Professor Tetmajer has devoted himself to investigating

C.	this matter, and, according to his statements, the cause of the disintegration

	of Portland cement exposed to air is to be found in a want of proper

preparation of the materials, particularly in the lack of sufficient grinding together of the chalk and clay to ensure the complete silifiation of the lime during the process of calcination.

But the best brands of Portland cement, which had withstood the action of water for several years, became soft on exposure to air. He says also, that

air especially attacks sharply (heavy) burnt cements, which imbibe a great deal of carbonic acid, and decay in water is caused by an excess of matters which undergo an increase in volume by oxidation and imbibing of water." The Professor found about 10 per cent. of the brands tested in this condition.

In the light of this exposition of the characteristics of both the English and German Portland cements, in the countries where they are manufactured and where they have been the longest in use, it would seem that no other or better evidence is needed to prove that artificially-made cements, however high they may test, are not true cements, and the people of this country who of late years, are using Portland cements with such unlimited confidence in the superiority of those brands over our own natural cements, a confidence born of the testing machine and nurtured in the belief that tensile strain can he as unerringly applied to cements as to iron or steel, may yet awaken to a sad realization of the deceptive character of such tests, for it may well be predicted that in a very few years, we shall see evidences of disintegration and decay in many of the important works now being constructed of Port land cement in this country. When we compare these early indications of decay on the part of these new-born artificial cements with the splendid record made by natural cements that have successfully withstood the action of sea water for over a century—and the still more trying action of the air for centuries—reaching nearly if not quite as far back as civilization itself, we are inevitably led to the conclusion that man has not yet succeeded in compounding the materials essential to the production of a first-class cement, that can surpass, in durability and general excellence, that which nature has so bountifully bestowed upon us.



ERRATA.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

DEAR SIR—I find that a printers error occurs in the description of Mr. E. A. Well's house illustrated in your last number. It should read, "The half timber framing is constructed of 2 in. x 6 in. studs," instead of 2 in. X 2 in. studs as appearing in your publication. Kindly correct same and oblige.

Respectfully yours, <person>J. FRANCIS BROWN</person>.



The <firm>Adamant Mfg. Co</firm>., of Syracuse, N. V. having recently purchased the property and business of the <firm>North western Adamant Co</firm>., of Minneapolis, has been reorganized with a capital stock of $500,000 under the name "Adamant Mfg. Co. of America." The new company has branches in New York, Milwaukee, West Superior and Toronto. The latter branch will continue under the same management as heretofore.



