<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

June, 1892



and properly cleaned off on completion, boards not to exceed 4 in. in width. Form steps at gallery passages. Partitions shown on plans by a yellow tint to have 4 x 3 in. heads and sills, common studs 4 x 2 at 16 in. centres ; door posts 4 x 4 in. ; braces 4 x 3 in. Truss partitions where necessary. Stairs in tower and N. E. staircase to have 1 3/4 in. close strings, beaded, with moulded capping and string mould, 11/2 treads, rounded nosings, cavetts, and fillet,  15292n. risers, 7 x 6 in. turned red oak newels, 5 x 3 in. moulded red birch rail, and 13/4 in. turned birch balusters. Stairs in tower from gallery level to next stage to be generally similar, but with 5 in. newels and 4 x 3 in. rail. Enclose at head with 7/8 matched and jointed sheeting with panelled door hung with 4 in. butts and finished with good mortice lock and porcelain and plated furniture. Stairs to have all necessary carriages, brackettings, &c., &c., complete; sheet soffit of stairs with narrow and jointed stuft. Stairs to basement to have 13/4 treads, no risers, rounded nosings, 1 3/4 strings, rounded rails. Stairs to tower belfrey from upper floor to have 13/4 strings and treads, rounded rail and 4 in. newels. The windows of vestry and dressing rooms to have proper boxed frames with all necessary lines, weights &c., 13/4 in. moulded sashes fastened with Berlin bronze automatic fasteners and furnished with brass ring window lifts. All basement windows to be protected by wire guards of stoutest wire well secured to frames. Windows of church tower, vestibules, &c., to have solid moulded and rebated frames with stops to secure lead lights and beaded fillets outside and inside as shown, ventilators and gablies to have chamfered frames and 7/8 in. louvres. Put hinged batten doors on inside, fastened with bolts. The doors to basement area to be 13/4 in. thick bead and butthung with 6 in. butts and furnished with two 8 in. barrel and Iwo 8 in. square bolts to each leaf; provide strong hooks. Frame 4 x 6 chamfered and rebated 2 in. rounded oak sill. Door at back of west porch to be 134 panelled and champered, hung with 5 in. Berlin bronze butts, furnished with 5 in. good mortice lock, bronze knobs—4 x 6 chamfered and rebated frame, 2 in. oak sill. The entrance doors on east front to be of oak 23/8 in. thick, panelled as shown, with rounded stiles and raised panels. Doors to be hung with 3 best 6 in. butts to each leaf, furnished with heavy square bolts to both leaves, and ecclesiastical escutcheons and drop handles of selected design. Provide and set also ornamental cast iron hinge plates according to detail; frames to be rebated and moulded with stiff bead and moulded tracenid fanlights with stop to secure glass. Provide heavy wrot. iron hooks to hold doors open. The swing doors immediately inside of the foregoing to have moulded frames finished above with crwon mould. Doors to he 13/8 in. thick, panelled, moulded, veneered with black ash and pre pared with stops for glazing; to be hung with Chicago double action spring hinges, nickel plated, and furnished with 12 in. polished copper finger plates, both sides. The other swing doors from vestibule to tower and staircase to be similar, also that from rear porch to vestibule, except that the latter will be of pine and will have japanned hinges and porcelain finger plates. The swing doors opening into gallery will be similar to those in front vestibule, but without glazing. The external doors of porch at rear of church to be 7/8 in. matched and headed boarding 21/8 in. framed and chamfered stiles and 1 I/4 inch back-rails, hung with three pairs of 5 in. butts to 4 in. rebated and chamfered frames, having 2 in. oak sills, and furnished with 8 in. spring and 10 in. barrel bolts and best heavy rebate mortice locks and 2 in. bronze knobs. Fasten back doors with strong brass hooks and eyes. Doors from church to rear vestibule to be 13/4 in. panelled and moulded, to be hung to moulded and rebated with two strong 5 in. Berlin bronze spring hinges to each leaf, and furnish with best 5 in. mortice locks, heavy copper bronze handles on one side, and copper iron finger plates on the other; standing leaf to have 12 in. bronze flush bolts, and strong hooks to hold both leaves open. Doors from church to vestry to be generally similar. btit hinges not to he spring. Substitute also bronze knobs for handles and finger plates. Doors from front vestibule to church to be similar to those to rear vestibule in every respect, but prepared for glazing. Doors opening on to platform to be hung with three 4 in. Berlin bronze hinges to each and furnished with best 4 in. mortice locks, copper bronze knobs and furniture. All hardwood doors to be veneered. The doors in vestry and dressing rooms to be 13/4 in. panelled and chamfered, hung in proper rebated and beaded frames with 4 in. Berlin bronze butt hinges. and furnished with good 4 in. mortice locks, brass bolts and keys, porcelain and plated furniture. Doors in plastered partitions to have 7/8 in. simply moulded architraves 41/2 in. wide with band mould. Walls on ground floor leading to dressing rooms and vestry to be sheeted to height shown with 7/8 in. matched and V. jointed sheeting of the best quality, in widths not exceeding 4 in. • blind nailed to grounds, and finished with moulded capping. Dressing rooms, lavatories and vesrry to have 8 in. moulded 7/8 base and 5 x 7/8 moulded chair rail. Put fillet at junction of floor and base. Vestibule screen to be according to details, to have mould ed posts or frames, boxed for weights. Dado of 2/12 in. x 7/8 matched V jointed sheeting, double, forming pocket into which sashes may slide; sashes to be 21/8 in., prepared with stops for lead glazing, hung with the very best sash cord over heavy brass pullies and heavy weights, and bronze lifts as required. Form baptistry with proper studding and joisting, and sheet floor and sides with narrow matched stuff; curb to be moulded with moulded capping—proper detached solid steps in baptistry. Form turned and moulded columns at baptistry with moulded cornice, traceried pannelling, &c., as shown, Pulpit platform to have 6. in by 2 in. joisting on proper supports—floor as church—front to be of panelling as shown, with rounded stiles and moulded capping and base. Put steps to platform as shown. Gallery front to be according to detail; turned balusters and tracried panels will be of black birch, also turned portion of newels at foot of stairs to platform. Provide and fix cut iron brackets on stays at about .c ft. space well secured. The traceried panels will be at about 10 ft. centers. String mould rail balustrade of stairs from gallery to platform to be a continuation of gallery front as shown; form proper carriage and hearers of these stairs and prepare for plastering. Steps at side entrance to be 2 in. by 3 in. slatted and dressed 3 sides, 2 in. strings resting in cedar bearers, slat walk in front of same of similar stuff in cedar sleepers and having rounded curb. Partitions in lavatories to he of 7/8 matched V jointed sheeting 7 ft. high in 3 in. widths, finished with capping. Doors to be kept up 6 in. from floor, to be panelled and furnished with brass bolts and hung with 31/2 butts. Plumber will supply seats of closets. Partitions forming dressing doors to be similar but extending to ceiling. Cope areas with r3/4 in. bevelled plank secured to brick work with 3/8 in. bolts 2 ft. long. Trim for registers and cut for steam fitters, pipes, &c., as required. Form side of coal bin with 2 it. plank on proper girth. Allow the sum of $100.00 for contingencies which will be deducted at final settlement if not required. Attend on other trades as required in the execution and for the perfect completion of the work.

IRON FOUNDER.

The iron columns to be delivered at the building, and the carpenter will hoist and set the same, assisted by founder, who will do any necessary fitting, drilling for bolts and supply all connections, fastenings and bolts. All bearings to be turned and columns to have top and bottom plates where required. Provide two basement columns under pulpit platform 4 in. diam. 1/2 inch metal. Provide six columns under gallery 4 in. diameter 5/8 metal, having moulded caps and shaft enriched with a diaper pattern of ap-

proved design. Provide and fix on ground floor eight columns, 10 it. diameter, 3/4 metal, having diaper pattern as above. Caps will he of plaster. The second stage of column will be (C) shaped 10 in. dram. 3/4 metal. Caps will be of plaster, as shown. The third stays of column will be + 10 in. diam, 1 in. metal. All to have the necessary brackets, bolts, stays, &c., according to detail. Gallery front will be of wood. Provide and set across baptistry recess one 12 In. 1 beam, 22 ft. 6in. long, weighing 4olbs. to the foot, and one 6 in. I beam 11 ft. long weighing 16 lbs. to the foot to carry back wall of organ recess. Provide and set two pairs of rolled iron girders across openings under gallery at tower and stair case, each girder to weigh 211/2 lbs. to the foot and to have yokes and bolts with ornamental washers. Drill for screws securing wooden fillet on soffit to cover gap.

GALVANIZED IRON.

All the main eaves of nave and aisles to have 5 in., and eaves of tower, vestibrule and staircase and vestry building square formed No. 28 galvanized iron, gutters properly secured to facias with wrot. iron brackets 5/8 x u in. and stiffened with 7/16 >< 7/16 wrot. iron bars In best manner. Put fifteen 3 in. octagon galvanized iron down pipes properly connected at eaves with gutters and at foot with drains 1 ft. below surface, and having proper caps to pipes; secure to wall with ornamental wrot. iron hold fasts not more than 8 ft. apart. Put two stacks of similar pipes to tower eaves to waste on main roof and put 2 in. branches from the gutters in the other two sides connected to the 3 in. pipes. Flash at walls of church at deck of vestry building with galvanized iron 10 in. wide let into joints of brickwork cemented and turned down over felt. Cover wreathing of projection well on west elevation with No. 28 galvanized iron, lapped tacked and soldered. Provide and set glazed with rough plate two galvanized iron skylights having ventilators with valves opeted by cords and pulleys. Provide and set on ventilating openings in ceiling of church ornamental register gratings and carry from the same to box near tower No. 28 galvanized iron ducts of sizes shown, carefully stayed and made secure and tight. Cover belfry floor of tower with No. 28 galvanized iron, lapped, tacked and soldered, and line with scupper and shoot to waste over church roof. Carry the iron 9 in. up on to wall and cement into joints of brickwork. Put galvanized iron shield in front of duct opening over roof of N. E. staircase held in place by wrot. iron brackets.

SLATER.

Line valleys with galvanized iron 15 in. wide. Cover saddle at back of tower with No. 28 galvanized iron carried up 2 ft. on to roof of church. Cover ridge rolls. Flash under sill pieces at junction of clear-storey walls, aisle roofs. Cover the sill pieces also and carry the iron well up behind in all tiles—say 5 in. Step and cloak flash at chimneys. tower, gables. &c. as required. Cover walls as shown and roofs of pinnacles, tower and stair case, with hard burned dark red tiles of best quality (Ontarro or Toronto Pressed Brick Co's.) of patterns to he selected. Form hips at tower and pinnacle roof and provide and set terra cotta finials as shown bolted with iron rods to wood work of spire, &c. Cover the other sloping roofs with medium sized Canadian slates from the Rockland quarries laid on heavy felt. Put a double course at eaves. Slate the weatherrngs in west elevation, also the walls and edge of gateway to tower. Cover flat roof of vestry building with best felt pitch and gravel roofing, guaranteed for five years in writing. Repair and make good after other trades and leave all perfect and complete.

BILL OF QUANTITIES.



CARPENTER AND JOINER WORK.

6,600 ft. of pine timber (board measure) in beams, purlines, $ c.

	plates, etc.	- -	-	- -	-

25,300 ft. of hemlock timber (board measure) in joists, rafters -

111/2 squares (100 ft.) of 2"x11/4" battening, outer walls of dressing

	room and vestry	-	-	- -	-	-

12 squares (100 ft.) of to it. X 2 In. studding, clear story -

50 squares (100 ft.) of 2 in. ribbed work, in roof, ceilings, forming

	panels, curved at angles	-	-	- -	-

723/4 squares of 7/8 matched roof sheeting, 8 ins, wide - -

9 squares of 7/8 matched sheeting to clear story . -

13/4 squares of 7/8 matched floor	- -	.	-

11/2 squares of 7/8 matched and v jointed sheeting - -

120 lineal ft. of platform fronts, best quality black ash, kiln dried

72 lineal ft. of baptistry panel work, tracery and gallery front,'

	kiln dried	-	-	- -	-	-	-

24 lineal ft. of casing gallery beam	-	- -	-

262 lineal ft. of run beam on iron coltnmns, 5 thicknesses 10 it. x

	2 in. and 7/s freize casing, bolts spiked, etc.	-	-

262 lineal ft. of dressed chanrfered 6 x 10 beam	-	-

160 lineal ft. of forming cornices mould at principals, and junction

	of wood work and plaster at brick wall	-	-	-

232 lineal ft. of 3 in. rolls to edges	-	-	.	-

430 lineal ft. of dressed eaves and beaded soffit, etc. -

147 lineal ft. of pinnacle dressed eaves	-	-	-

12 black ash doors and jambs, auditorium, vestibule, etc. -

5 pairs roof principals wrought and moulded, as per section

10 pairs roof principals smaller, wrought and moulded to aisles

1 hinged door in tower floor bolted	-	- -

1 valve hinged and with ropes and pullies, to belfry, and with

	small door hinged and bolted	-	.	-	-

173 stair steps finished. etc., as specified, different widths, strings

	black ash and open treads to basement	-	-	-

4 black birch turned pillars, gallery front	- -	-

4 dressed and chamfered brackets to gallery beam, on stone

	corbels, 3/4 iron bolts in brick wall, anchored	-	-

11 rows of 2"X2" bridging	-	.	.	-	-

Provide and fix centres, etc., thronghout, provide cambered lintels. 6 in. wall thickness, horstrng and setting 16 iron columns, 6 beams and girders, to receive assistance from iron founder

Boarding over stone sills and weathering, etc., as required -81/2 squares of 7/8 in. G and T gallery floors, 4 it. wide, stepped

	at passages	-	-	-	-	.	.

34 squares of stud partition, trussed where necessary - -

71/2 squares of 4 it. x 7/8in. v jointed wall sheeting mould, capped

30 lineal ft. of vestibule screen mould frame boxed for weights,

	etc., complete	- -	- -	-	-

192 lineal ft. 8 in. mould base and chair rail	-	-	-

78 lineal ft. 7/8 in, matched v jointed sheeting, double for pocket to

	slide sashes, complete	-	-	-	-

28 lineal ft. dado, 21/2 in. x 7/sin, matched, v jointed, 7 ft. high, cap-

	ped part up to ceiling, complete	. -	-	-

40 lineal ft. of area coping, 13/4 in. bevelled plank - -

1 panel door head of tower stair complete, as specified -

2 13/4 in. doors to basement area, bead and butt, hardware, etc.,

	complete	-	-	

1 13/4 it. paneled door, west porch, hardware, etc., complete -

2 23/8 it. oak entrance panel, and fanlight door, double hardware,

	etc., complete	.	-	-	-	-	-

