<doctype type="text">June, 1892	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND Builder 57



and distinctly national character. At the same time, the tendency of architects in the Dominion is happily in this direction. And this being, the case a consideration of the characteristics of architectural style may not, at the present time, be deemed inopportune or unimportant. It is a matter of uncertainty to fix the dates of some of the older buildings of the world, or even to be very positive in asserting what nation has the first claim to have had a national style. On these points the doctors disagree, but the majority of writers are of opinion that, in the architecture of Egypt, we are taken further back in the history of the world, than in that of any other nation. It is now known, beyond question, that some of the pyramids were erected at least 3000 years B. C., and when the great mechanical ingenuity displayed in these wonderful structures is taken into consideration, together with other evidences of the high state of civilization the Egyptians had attained at that early period, we are absolutely at a loss to ascertain how far back their history as a nation extends. For the purpose of this paper, however, it is sufficient to start with the pyramids, as the earliest architectural monuments known to us in the world.

In these, as in all other buildings which have been discovered in Egypt, the great predominating feature is mass. The Egyptians were essentially builders, and they built for eternity. It is nowhere found in any of their buildings, not even in the tombs or temples, that the details are emphasized in such a way as to detract from the massiveness of the whole composition. Simplicity and stability were with them of the first importance, and where ornament and color were introduced, their introduction did not in any way lessen the sombre grandeur, or the eternal purpose of the structure. But being kept in subjection and painted or carved with remarkable fidelity and truth, they served the double purpose of affording relief to the eye, and giving scale to the buildings.

In many of the chambers of the pyramids, and particularly in the tombs and temples, color was freely used ; not as an after thought, (as decoration is arranged for in our own day) but as an essential part of the original design. And though the colors were always brilliant and lustrous, the general harmony was maintained so perfectly that the effect was always pleasing. The subjects chosen for these mural paintings were generally scenes from their daily life ; and so from these we have a more accurate history of this people than we have of many nations that came into existence when ancient Egypt had almost or altogether disappeared. Sculpture also, was very largely used, and wherever it was applied, like painting, it formed part of the original conception. And these sculptural representations may always be taken to be most faithful portrait. No flattering touches were permissible. The sculptors were required to ad here most sorupulously in every line and feature, to an exact representation of the original. Some writers on Egyptology even go so far as to assert that rigid accuracy both in painting and sculpture, wherever the human form was concerned, was not so much an artistic as a religious necessity. In the more strictly architectural ornamentation of their columns, doorways, cornices and other portions of their buildings, however, although their ornament was generally based upon natural objects immediately at hand, it was invariably conventionalized. And when color was applied in these cases, it was so arranged as to contribute to the harmony of the whole composition.

The remarks which have been made have reference, as any one may see, to the great public buildings of Egypt. But with regard to the domestic architecture of the country, very little is known. Even from the solitary example now remaining at Medinet Habou (this being a royal pavilion) we can form only a faint idea of the general character of their domestic work. But we can well imagine that the people who erected, with such taste and skill, pyramids, temples, tombs and palaces, which were intended to defy the destructive forces of time, must have exhibited the same refinement in their domestic work, although they may have built their houses with more perishable materials.

A very singular and noticeable fact with regard to Egyptian architecture, is the continuance of the national features and characteristics of the style right on until the time when it may be said that Egypt ceased to build. The Egyptians were conquered by the Greeks and afterwards by the Romans, two great building nations, but, unlike any other people who fell under their domination, their influence on the architecture of Egypt is nowhere visible. Many great and notable buildings were erected both under the Greeks and the Romans, but they were carried out in every detail just as if neither Greek nor Roman had ever seen Egypt. This is very strong evidence that those two great peoples saw in the architecture of the country they had conquered, its absolute suitableness to that country, for, though they both imitated and grafted on to the styles which bear their names, features essentially Egyptian, they left the architecture of the country, during the period of their occupation, altogether untouched.

Following the Egyptian period, in point of antiquity, we reach the Chaldean, in which, however, must be included the Assyrian and Persian styles. The oldest buildings of these people so far as can be ascertained, date back to about two thousand five hundred years before the Christian era. Unfortunately the materials used were mostly of a very perishable nature, such as wood and sun-dried bricks, so that the remains of them are, in most instances, nothing more than heaps of shapeless ruins.

But during the reigns of the Assyrian and Persian monarchs, more durable materials were manufactured or imported, and then many palaces and a few temples were erected of gigantic dimensions, and in all the gorgeousness of eastern show and splendour. Symbolism and allegory, having always been the most natural expression of the mind of the western Asiatic, are, in the Chaldaic buildings, employed to their fullest extent. As a necessary consequence they are more decorative than architectural, in the strict sense of the word, always gorgeous, though some times having a leaning to the barbaric. Some of the architectural forms they invented, were, however, turned to good account by the Greeks, and are better known to us in their European than in their Asiatic dress. At the same time the remains which have been, and which, it is to be hoped, will yet be discovered and explored (such Nineveh, Persepolis, etc.) must always be of vast importance and interest, although more to the historian than to the architect.

Unfortunately, the Jews had no style of architecture whatever that they could call their own. The greatest buildings that were erected in Judea, even during the time when they endeavoured to mark their prosperity and importance on the history of the world, were the conceptions of foreign architects, and the execution of foreign builders. Probably this is due to their too literal interpretation of the second commandment. But whether this is the case or not, the fact remains the same, that there is nothing essentially Jewish to be found in the whole history of architecture.





<article title="Ontario Association of Architects Students Examinations" author=""><assoc>ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS</assoc> STUDENTS EXAMINATIONS.

In response to a number of requests we publish below the examination papers used in the above examinations :— Practical Knowledge of Building Trades.

FINAL.



APRIL 5TH.



MR. <person>E. BURKE</person>, Examiner.



NOTE:	120 Marks will be the maximum number j5ossible to be obtained and óo per cent. the minimum to pass.

Values.

10 1. Name a simple method of " squaring" in laying out the lines for the erection of buildings. What are "batter boards"? and what is their use?

15 2. Draw to a scale of ½" to the foot, a section of a cellar wall of rubble stone 18" thick, showing proper construction, with footings and methods of keeping the walls dry and of removing water of soakage and springs. Write explanatory descriptions.

15 3. Draw to scale of ½" to the foot, to carry an iron column, a brick pier 2' 3" square, 8 ft. high, with double footing course. Show also plans of two consecutive courses of the brickwork. Wood beams I0"x12" will rest upon two sides of the pier, one foot below the top, in such a manner as not to weaken it.

I5 4. In constructing a heavy tower wall of stone, in connection with a lighter stone wall abutting upon the same, what precaution should be taken to prevent unequal settlement which might occur even when the footings are properly proportioned to sustain the superimposed load.

12 5. What is underpinning? and how done? Give explanatory sketch. How would you support a brick wall when inserting a breastsummer? Show sketch with explanatory remarks.

12 6. Indicate the construction size of the joint of an 8" cast iron pillar of x section set upon a cylindrical pillar of cast iron 9" diameter. The latter also carries two beams 8"x12".

12 7. Draw 1/8 size proper method of superimposing wood posts carrying beams, so that the latter may burn or fall out without endangering the whole building. Show also connections of beams to walls with the same object in view.

15 8. Draw section to 1/4 scale of a Queen Bolt Composite roof truss of 50 ft. span and pitch of 30 to 40  degrees. Show details 1/8 size. Indicate parts in compression and tension.

20 9. Indicate construction of iron floor beams and posts showing method of fire proofing.

10.	Show approved construction of a first class veneered door. Show to an inch scale a horizontal section of a boxed window frame with inside folding blinds in boxes.

10 11. Describe and sketch two methods of forming valley and hip flashings. Also method of flashing a slate roof of 1/2 pitch at a parapet wall.

15 12. Describe three coat plastering, mentioning points in regard to each coat. How should successive coats of paint be treated to gain a proper surface. Show a section of the leads in lead glazing and method of inserting and holding glass.



Strength of Materials.

FINAL.



NOTE:	ZOO marks count a full paper.

Values.

1.	What would be the proper Form of Cross-Sections for a

Beam of(a), cast iron; (b), wood; (c), rolled steel ; giving your

