

<doctype type="<person>"</person>">respect of the nation has been dragged in the dust by politicians anxious to make themselves and their party "solid" with certain vote controlling elements.





THE removal of St. Andrews Church, Toronto, from its present situation, at the corner of King and Simcoe Streets, to an uptown location, has been decided upon. No doubt, from the standpoint of the church's interest, the decision is a wise one. The building is situated at too great a distance from the modern residential part of the city, and in consequence, some of its members are forced to attend other churches. The removal of this church will deprive the city of a piece of street architecture which for nearly twenty years has stood an object of pride to the citizens and of admiration to visitors. The site on which the building stands was deeded to the trustees on the condition that a church would be erected thereon within a fixed period. When the limit of time had nearly elapsed a competition was held with the object of securing suitable plans for a building. The plans submitted by Mr. <person>W. G. Storm</person>, of Toronto, were chosen, and the building erected therefrom at a cost of $100,000. An illustration of the building, which is in the Norman style, is published in the present number. Tenders are now being asked for taking down the church and for its re-erection on a new site. It is estimated that the depreciation in the material would amount to about twenty-five per cent. It is not the intention we understand in re-erecting the building to make any alteration in the design. It is to be hoped that proper care will be taken to select a site which will display to not less advantage than at present its beauty of design.





CANADIANS should make the most of the opportunity afforded by the approaching World's Fair to make known to the world the capabilities of this country and its people. We are pleased to notice that in agricultural, manufacturing arid other lines, steps are being taken in this direction. It would seem pertinent to enquire what will be done to show the status of Canadian architecture. The desirability of making a Canadian architectural exhibit will hardly be questioned. Such an exhibit would tend to attract to Canada persons of refinement, many of whom have been imbued with prejudice against it in consequence of misconception regarding its climate and the status of its civilization. Canadian architects should lose no time in preparing for this exhibit designs which should exemplify their best talent. They should be sufficiently patriotic to devote whatever time and money may be necessary for this purpose. So far as time is concerned, the prevailing dullness has left many members of the profession with abundance of leisure which could not be used to better advantage. We are pleased to be informed that some prominent members of the profession in Toronto have already decided to exhibit their work either individually or in conjunction with other exhibitors, as circumstances may direct. It will of course be necessary to decide the conditions under which the exhibit should be made; that, however, is a matter of future arrangement. As the preparation of suitable drawings may be presumed to occupy several months, it is very desirable that a commencement should be made at once.





A COMPETITION was instituted last year for designs for an Episcopal Cathedral to be erected in Victoria, B. C. The limit of cost was fixed at $150,000, a sum very inadequate for the purpose. The competition closed on the 31st of December last. The competitors numbered fifteen or sixteen, and were almost equally divided as between English and Canadian architects. Three prize were offered, the first being $750 and 5 per cent commission on the cost of carrying out the work; the second, $500, and the third $250. Sir <person>Arthur Blomfield </person>was appointed to judge the designs. His award has just been announced. The first prize is given to Messrs. <firm>Evers & Keith</firm>, of Victoria ; the second and third prizes will, it is said, go to two of the English competitors whose names have not yet been disclosed. The Canadian competitors, being situated at such a distance from the place of award, had two weeks less time than their English competitors in which to prepare their drawings. In consequence, some of the Canadian designs had to be forwarded in an incomplete condition. The accepted design is said to be in the style of the XIII century. The total length is 236', height of spire, 275', internal height of ceiling of nave 72'. The cross has been retained as the basis of the plan, the transepts being shallower than in most of the old examples. The tower has been placed in the centre of the west front. On the east side of the east gable rise two turrets 93' in height. The walls will be of stone with cut stone finish, ceiling of cedar and roof of slate. The total seating capacity is 1468, 3'3" x 1'1' 1/8, being allowed for each person. The enterprise may be regarded as an English rather than a Canadian one, as it is understood that two thirds of the cost will be defrayed out of subscriptions of well known English philanthropists.





SCIENTIFIC men and the general public have indulged the belief that of late sanitary science has been making satisfactory progress. In his paper on "The Free and Liberal Ventilation of Sewers in its Relation to the Sanitation of our Dwellings," read before the Royal Society of Canada, on May

31st last, Mr. <person>Chas. Baillairgé </person>City Engineer, of Quebec, puts himself squarely in opposition to some of the most important doctrines of modern sanitarians. He says: "A host of unemployed would-be-scientists in each city, are constituted a 'Board of Health,' elect a President, Vice-Presidents, Secretaries, Treasurers ; appoint health officers, inspectors, etc., and this galaxy of hygienists, to give themselves an air of public usefulness, prove over zealous in clamoring against the falsification of alimentary substances, in advocating and filtering of water, in conjuring tip microbes, bacteria and contagious diseases, in battling for vaccination. disinfection, ventilation and the like. They fancy they are serious and in the end become so, and would convince people that a thousand precautionary measures are at present indispensable, of which no one ever dreamed in the past, and without in any way suffering therefrom." And again : "let me say in one word, to have done with these preliminaries, and show that in many cases, the evil is not nearly as great as it is said to he, that while we are crying out for ventilation, nine tenths of the human race do without it and appear to be none the worse for ignoring it. A thousand precautions are sought to be enforced in the drainage of our houses. Thousands of towns and villages, the wide world over, ignore the thing entirely and live quite as long as those who at such great cost give themselves the luxury of sanitary modes of removing their excreta and during epidemics, as during normal times, there is no more, no less sickness, there are no fewer, no less deaths in the one case than in the other." These opinions, from which most persons will feel inclined to dissent, are to some extent modified by those following, in which the importance of providing for the exclusion of sewer gas iron dwellings is discussed.





<article title="characteristics of architectural" author="Stalker G.F.">CHARACTERISTICS OF ARCHITECTURAL STYLE.

By <person>G. F. STALKER</person>.



SINCE the Queen Anne revival, and to a large extent on account of it, there has been more energy and individuality displayed in the architecture of Great Britain, her colonies and America, than has been the case in any similar period of the world's history. It is a noticeable fact at the same time, and probably also attributable to the same cause, that during this time style in architecture has got somewhat mixed. The misfortune in regard to the Queen Anne revival was not on account of any lack of genius on the part of the architect who was the chief mover in it, but that the Queen Anne style (if style it may be called) was essentially debased and impure. During the latter part of the reign of Queen Anne, when the kind of building which hears her name was in vogue in all its pristine impurity, architecture was at as low an ebb as it well could be. The knowledge of art, in any of its branches, had departed ; but the belief 'that Rome was the mother of art and Italy its home, possessed the minds of the people; and consequently nothing that had not a smattering of Roman or Italian art would pass muster. And, as generally happens under such circumstances, the least pure features of the Italian renaissance, with its broken backed, curved or twisted tympani, its disproportioned mouldings and obtrusive carving, were copied and stuck on to buildings in England, without any regard as to fitness or congruity. And in these latter times the absurdities, and the outgrowths of the ignorance displayed in the days of Queen Anne have come to be looked upon as quaint, piquain, or artistic architectural adornments. But there is properly speaking, no style in them. A cool headed architectural critic would pass over the Queen Anne period without the slightest notice. A much better revival and one more likely to be lasting, is the Norman. This is often but most erroneously called "the modern Romanesque," but there is nothing Romanesque in it, excepting that the semi circular arch is used, and this was also the dominant feature of the Norman. Everything else in this revival is peculiarly Norman, and consequently it is based upon a style of great purity. Herein, then, lies the great difference between the two, In the latter, modern architectural expression has been founded upon a distinct language, in the former it rests on a poor kind of patois. These two revivals are noticed here merely to show the effect that a clear knowledge of architectural style will have upon any attempt which may be made to found a new development, or departure, in architecture, upon any style which has previously existed. To take as a model the class of buildings that were erected at a time when architectural knowledge was meagre, and the outcome of it in consequence debased, may create a fleeting fancy, but will have no lasting beneficial effect on architecture. While, on the other hand, to take as a model a period when architecture was studied and practiced as a fine art, the result cannot fail to have a good and permanent influence.

The question of inventing a new style of architecture is often raised by unlearned men; and architects are often taunted with the fact that they are unable to accomplish this object. But then no man ever did invent a style of architecture or a language. They are both the growth of centuries, having in them the distinctive marks of the people amongst whom they have sprung up, and have been developed and perfected, but bearing also upon them traces more or less definite, of international influence. It is, therefore, no disgrace to a young country like Canada, that she has not yet reached that fullness of architectural stature, to claim for any of her buildings a truly

