<doctype type="text">June, 1892	CANADIAN	AND BUILDER	61



sill of an external door in 11/2 brick wall, the frame being 6x4, and the door 13/8 thick, pannelled on the outside and bead flush on the inside.

t7 12. What is understood by the terms: beam filling, brick-flogging, damp-course, bats, corbelling, grouting, template, parging, deafening, strapping, plugging, housing, morticing, tenoning' bridging, key (in plastering), wiped joint.



Nature and Properties of Materials.

FINAL..

APRIL 8TH.

MR. <person>E. BURKE, </person>Examiner.

NOTE:	80 marks will be the maximum number of marks possible to be obtained and Oo per cent, Me minimum to pass.

Values.

12 1. Name the source and method of obtaining lines. Name two different kinds and the nature of each.

12. 1. In building a wall in a damp situation what should be the composition of the mortar? and why?

10. 3. What are the uses of Concrete and what is its com position.

12 4. Name at least four different species of stone in general use in buildings and the distinguishing composition and qualities of each.

10 5. Name the distinguishing features of a good brick.

10 6. Name at least five kinds of roof coverings and the relative advantages and disadvantages of each.

12 7. What are the principal merits of cast and wrought iron? and in what way are they most effectively employed?

10 8. Describe the character of a good quality of timber for building purposes.

12 9. Name two kinds of glass and wherein are they different What is the composition of good Oil Paint and of Varnish.





Technical Terms.

FIRST INTERMEDIATE.

NOTE:	100 marks will be considered a full paper.

Values.

50 1. Define: Abacus, Fillet, Acanthus, Verge-board, Boss

Coping, Voussoir, Cavetto, Chamfer, Arch itrave, Base

Coping, Aisle Crockets, Mullion, Extrados, Console, Patua,

Groin, Dais, Clere-storey, Transept, Surbase, Beak-head,

Astragal.

10 2. What is a Chamfer Stop? Sketch one.

15 3. What is a Rose Window? Sketch one.

20 4. Sketch, roughly, any Gothic Roof principal, and name the various timbers.

10 5. What do you understand by a Broach Spire?

25 6. Describe the main features of any Church you know, tising the proper technical terms for all parts.

20 7. Sketch a Classic Conice, and give the proper names to each member.

SECOND INTERMEDIATE.

APRIL 8TH.

<person>S. H. TOWNSEND</person>, Examiner.

NOTE:	1OO marks will be considered a full paper 

Values.

15 1. What is a Corbel Table?

2.	Define: Cyma-recta, Fillet, Surbase, Gargoyle, Torus,

Transept, Abacus, Mullion, Apse, Console, Flamboyant

Bowtill, Voussoirs, Crockets, Achiar Annulet, Triglyph,

Extrados, Boss, Caryatides, Clere-storey, Dais, Cavetto,

Architrave, Astragal.

15 3. What are Chamfer Stops? Sketch one in the Norman and one in the Early English style.

20 4. Sketch three examples of Norman Plain Mouldings and name the members.

25 5. Describe any Church you know, using the proper technical terms wherever possible.

25 6. Sketch roughly a Column and Entablature in any order. Name the order, and each of the members.



FINAL.

APRIL 8TH.

S. H. TOWNSEND, Examiner.

NOTE:	100 marks will be considered a full paper.

Values.

10 1. What do you understand by "long and short work?" Sketch an example and say where and when it was used.

35 2. Define: Tympanum, Trefoil, Echinus Apse, Cusp,

Label, Mitre, Bowtill, Flamboyant, Corona, Console,

Donjon, Cyma-recta, Fillet, Surbase, Squint, Throating,

Torus, Gargoyle, Transept, Squinch. Extrados, Abacus,

Modillion, Caryatides Dais.

10 3. What is a Broach Spire? Sketch one.

20 4. Of what members do Norman Plain Mouldings consist? Sketch three examples of Norman enriched mouldings, and give the proper name to each.

10 5. What is an "Impost"? Sketch one.

10 6. What is a Rose window ?" Sketch one.

20 7. Sketch a column entablature in any of the Greek orders, and name the members.

10 8. What is a Corbel Table? Sketch one.

25 9. Describe the roof and main entrance door of any Church you know, using the proper technical terms and names for all mouldings, fixtures, etc.

<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

<building>RESIDENCES ON DORCHESTER STREET, M0NTREAL, FOR MESSRS.

SHEARER AND BROWN</building>, <firm>WRIGHT & SON</firm>, ARCHITECTS.

The above houses are situated on the corner of Dorchester street and Atwater avenue, and the view is taken up on Atwater avenue, looking on the front on Dorchester street. They are built of Nova Scotia red sand-stone furnished and built by Mr. <person>J. H. Hutchison</person>, contractor.

They are lined on the front with terra cotta blocks.

In the plumbing the very best materials have been used, and all is fitted up very complete. The buildings are wired for electric light.

The flat portion or hollow roof is covered with Sparham cement and the mansard with best red slate, cut round. Firewall, covering, nosing, etc. , are all cold rolled copper, as well as all the hip rolls and terminals.

The ground floors are finished in oak, the first floor in whitewood and the balance in pine. All the interior detail is made to correspond with the interiors tone work. The front is richly carved.

The contractors for the work were as follows : Masonry, J. H. Hutchinson; carpentering<person>, J. Shearer </person>; plastering. <person>P. C. Wand </person>; plumbing and electric wiring, <firm>Robt. Mitchell & Co. </firm>; roofing, <firm>Campbell & Co</firm>.



PHOTOGRAVURE PLATE—<building>ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH, TORONTO</building>. <person>W. G. STORM</person>, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.

HOUSE IN ROSEDALE,—<person>E. B. JARVIS</person>, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.

<building>ALEXANDRIA SCHOOL	FOR GIRLS, EAST TORONTO</building>.—<person>HENRY SIMPSON</person>. ARCHITECT, TORONTO.





<article title="How to Estimate" author="Hodson, W.H.">HOW TO ESTIMATE.

By <person>W. H. HODSON</person>.

Following is a portion of the balance of the specification and bill of quantities accompanying the drawings of Baptist church, Walmer Road, Toronto, published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for May. The remaining portion will appear in our next issue

CARPENTER AND JOINER WORK.

Provide and fix all necessary centerings and turning pieces, none to be removed until authorized by the architects. Provide cambered lintels 6 in. in depth by the thickness of wall where required. Framing lumber to be of good white pine free front large or loose knots, shakes or other imperfections and to hold the full sizes shown or specified when fixed in the building. The portion showing below plaster line must be carefully selected free from dark knots, stains and cracks. The he Joists and rafters may be of sound well seasoned hemlock. The joiners' work to be executed (unless otherwise specified) with good quality of clear and well seasoned white pine lumber suitable for carving. The woodwork of front of platform and baptistry, panelling and tracery at back of platform, gallery front and casing of gallery beam, vestibule screw and the doors and jambs in auditorium and front vestibule, and strings of stairs to be of well seasoned black ash, kiln dried, and of best quality. The turned pillars in gallery front to be of black birch. The carpenter to hoist and set the iron columns and girders which will be delivered at the building by founder, who will assist carpenter in put ting columns together, supplying and fixing the necessary bolts and doing any drilling required. Board over stone sills and weathering as soon as set. Provide seasoned slips 21/2 X 3/8 in., to be laid on walls under bearings of joists, and elsewhere as required for fixing trimmings and at every 2 ft. in height of dressing room and vestry outer walls to which to nail battens &c., and provide all necessary wood, bricks, &c. Batten outer walls of vestry and dressing rooms with 2 x 1 11/4 batten at 16 in. centers (walls of church and vestibules will be finished in brick). Ground floor joists to be 12 X 2 in. at an average of 16 in. centres resting on walls, and on io x 12 in. beams. Beams to rest on walls and on brick piers, joists of porch, rear vestibule, dressing room and vestry, io x 2 in. at 16 in. centers. Gallery beams to be composed of ten 12 X 7s dressed boards breaking joint and well nailed. Gallery joists to be so x 2 at 16 in. centres ; outlooks of same 2 x 6 in. Form rising plates wi h 2 x 4 in. stuff as shown. The rear gallery beam is to be carried in four dressed and chamfered brackets as shown ; brackets to rest in stone Corbels, and to be bolted to walls with 3/4 in. bolts built into brick and well anchored. Deck joists of vestry &c., to be so x 2 at 16 in. centres, made up with 2 in. stuff to form slope of 1/2 in. to the foot. Form Curves for skylight with 2 in. stuff io in. above roof, and line in inside with narrow matched and jointed sheeting with bend at ceiling line and moulding at top. Trimmers at stairs, flues, windows, &c., to be 4 in. thick. Put a cotirse of 2 x 2 in. bridging between each bearing. Joists of tower to be 12 X 2 at i6 in. centres, The run beams or plates of main roof resting on iron columns to be formed with five thicknesses of 2 X io in. stuff breaking joint, and in lengths to span two bays to he well spiked with 6 in. wrot. iron spike at 3 ft. spaces with double in. wrot. iron bolts at all joints. Walls of clerestory to be formed with lox 2 in. studding at 16 in. centres, resting on 6 x 10 in. dressed and chamfered beams cutting in between iron columns. Plate above this beam receiving ends of aisle rafters to be 2 x io in. spiked to studding wherever practicable; the framing timbers may be made up to several thicknesses of stuff instead of being solid. In such cases joints must be properly broken and work thoroughly spiked and bolted. Principal rafters, collars, tie beams, queen posts and wall pieces to be of the sizes figured on detail sheet, dressed and stop chamfered or turned and moulded as shown. Purlines 6 x 8 in., checked into principals and stop chamfered. Ribs on ceilings forming panels to be 2 in. thick, rounded at angles, curved ribs to be made up of several thicknesses of stuff, breaking joint and well glued and nailed. Carpenters to stipply and fix all the bolts, straps, iron rods, nuts, washers, stirrups, &c., in Connection with the framing of roof and as directed. Common rafters and collars 6 X 2 in. at 16 in. centres, collars to be well spiked to rafters. Rafters of pinnacles to be 4 x 2 secured to 4 x 4 in. mast, built into brickwork. Case the run beams &c ,with 7/8 in. stuft, forming frieze having angle moulding as shown. Form moulded cornices in wood cutting in between principals. Put moulded fillets or cornices wherever necessary at junction of wood or plaster work with finished brick walls.

Roofs, sloping and flat, to he sheeted with 7/8 in. matched boarding well nailed to rafters in widths not exceeding 8 in. laid to break joint. Put proper 3 in. rolls to ridges Eaves and gables to have ends of rafters dressed; dressed and beaded soffit, dressed facia and moulding against wall. Eaves of pinnacles and buttresses to he moulded as shown, The foul air trunk connecting galvanized iron vent tube in loft of church to tower to have 6 x 2 joists. 4 x 2 studding and rafters: walls and roof to be boarded for slating, soffit to be sheeted with matched and V jointed stuff, and floor laid with 7/8 in. matched stuff ; hinged batten door in east side fastened with good bolt, Provide a valve in the same of light stuff, hinged at top and worked with rope and pulleys from gallery stage of tower. Carry this duct with matched sheeting into belfry as shown, and form small door, hinged and bolted, in the same. Sheet walls of clerestory on outside with matched stuff. Lay ground gallery floors with good quality of well seasoned  11858n, grooved and tongued boarding, blind nailed to joists

