<doctype type="text">west to the seaboard by some four hundred miles, and would give Canada an advantage which it would be impossible for her to be deprived of. It would be the means of building up the interests of Toronto and Montreal, of developing our shipping and of promoting trade between this country and Great Britain. The cost of a ship-railway is placed at $12,000,000 to $15,000,000. The cost of the proposed American canal is estimated at $1 $110,000,000 If, as is supposed, the saving in cost of transportation in deep draught ships from the lakes to the ocean, would in a single year amount to sufficient to pay this latter sum, there would not appear to be much risk involved in the Canadian enterprise at so much less cost, and in view of its greater advantages. The benefits to be derived from carrying out the undertaking, will depend to some extent upon its early commencement and speedy completion, in order that the volume of trade which, as stated, has already begun to flow in this direction, may be encouraged, instead of being allowed to be diverted into other channels.



<article title="The Monier system of building construction" author="Angell, Lewis">SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

THE MONIER SYSTEM OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.



By <person>LEWIS ANGELL</person>.

At the meeting of the Science Standing Committee, 4th inst., I called attention to the Monier system of building construction which I have recently had the opportunity of inspecting in actual operation in Berlin, The system consists of a combination of cement or fine concrete with a net-work of wrought-iron wire or small bare forming a core. The system is applicable to a great variety of form s—viz., floors, ceilings, roofs, domes, walls, bridges, retaining walls. waterpipes, circular or oviform sewers, &c., and even the fortifications. Its recommendations are great strength, and economy in materials, space, and time. It is especially fire and damp-proof, and, to a large extent, independent of skilled labor.

The accompanying sketches will generally illustrate the

system, which, as above stated, can be applied to various forms

of construction.

Fig. I is an illustration of a fire-proof floor or arch about 10 feet span and 1 3/4 inch thickness. Upon an ordinary centre of planks a layer of cement and sand, in the proportions of to 3, is laid one half the intended thickness of the arch. Upon this

landings will bear twelve times more weight than corresponding slabs of concrete.. Another valuable quality of the Monier construction is that it will not suddenly break, crash, or collapse as in ordinary construction, but it gradually buckles or sags, retaining the weight above (fig. 2). The chief of the Berlin Fire Brigade has issued an official order that firemen are to enter buildings constructed on the Monier system, as there is no risk of floors and ceilings cracking and falling by reason of either heat or water.

The system has made great way in Germany, Austria, Hungary, and other parts of the continent during the last three years in connection with public buildings, palaces, warehouses, bridges, waterworks, tunnels, drainage, &c.

The foregoing is only a general description of the wonderful results on the continent of this new system invented by <person>Mr. Monier </person>and elaborated by <person>Mr. Wayss</person>, the eminent engineer-architect of Berlin; and capable of such wide application. Its conception in a modified form is not altogether new. There have been proposals to introduce a wire-wove core in various forms, but there has not hitherto been any serious application of the principle to actual construction, nor does there yet appear to be any instance of its adoption in this country. Its first intended application is to be in the deck of the new pier about to be constructed at Brighton, in the form of horizontal slabs or paving, whereby a considerable amount of time and the space it would occupy will be saved. The system is well worthy of the serious consideration of British engineers and architects.



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

PHOTOGRAVURE PLATE—PROPOSED NEW <building>UNION STATION, TORONTO</building>.-—<firm>STRICKLAND & SYMONS</firm>, ARCHITECTS.



The main building facing on Front street will be built of red Credit Valley stone for the two lower stories and pressed brick with red Credit Valley stone dressing for the stories above, the roof being covered with red tile. The main entrance will be built of cut stone, floored in tile and leading into the main hall or rotunda, 40 x 50 ft., finished in oak, with tiled floors, the ceiling being panelled and enriched and the walls arcaded with stone and marble columns. The entrance to the company's offices will be by the tower entrance, which will contain an iron staircase and passenger elevators. Passing through the rotunda where tickets are purchased and baggage checked, the arcade corridor 20 ft. wide leads to the main waiting room. On either side of the corridor the store will be handsomely fitted up in most modern style.

The general waiting room 75 x 8o ft. will be finished in pressed brick and cut stone, with heavy enriched and panelled oak ceiling, with colored glass dome sky-light, light being also obare laid longitudinally and transversely wrought-iron wires about tained from clerestory windows on three sides. The floors of



 inch diameter, so as to form a net-work with about 3-inch

this room and other waiting rooms will be laid with mosaic

interspaces or mesh, the intersections being secured with fine flooring. The ladies' and gentlemen's waiting rooms will be fit-

wire. The net-work is then covered with another equal layer of ted up in hardwood, with decorated plaster ceilings, and the cement, completing the thickness of the arch, the wrought wire lavatories in connection with both of these rooms will be fitted net-work being thus embedded in the cement as a core. The

spandrels are filled in with concrete in the proportion of to 8. up in the very latest and most complete style. Conveniently The thickness of the wire and the cement arch varies with the situated off the main waiting room will be the telegraph and span and weight to be carried. The Hungarian Government parcel offices and news stand, with their respective fittings

specially designed for their various uses. The outer or bridge

tested a Monier arch, 2 inches thick, of 8 feet span, and 6 inches waiting room will be finished in ash or other hardwood, with

rise, by a distributed load of 31 tons with safety. Another	plate glass windows and doors. Two passenger elevators each

arch 4 inches thick of 30 feet span carried a distributed load	capable of holding 40 persons will connect this room with track

of 42 tons. A bridge has been constructed over the canal at	level, and also a handsome staircase ten feet wide finished in

Bremen with a span of 125 feet and 7 feet rise, having a thick-	hardwood.

ness of only 7 1/2 inches on the crown.	 The new south train shed will be entirely of iron and glass

  It has been proved by tests and experience that the expansion	and conform to the latest improvement in train shed 

and contraction of the cement and iron are equal, that cement	construction.

and iron possess great affinities and become a solid mass, and	

	 The lighting throughout, and all power for elevators and

	other machinery, will be by electricity supplied from plant in

	the basement of main building. Heating throughout will be by

	steam.

	 The expenditure for the entire building will approximate



that the iron is not oxidized or otherwise affected independently $500,000.

of the cement. This form of construction give a maximum of strength with a minimum of material. It has also been proved 

by tests of the Hungarian Government that arches constructed	

on the Monier system will bear five times more weight than corresponding best concrete arch, and that Monier slabs or 

POWER HOUSE, HAMILTON ELECTRIC STREET RAILWAY COMPANY, HAMILTON—JAMES BALFOUR, ARCHI TECT, HAMILTON. "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION FOR A TOWN COTTAGE—DESIGN SUBMITTED BY "VERISOPHT."