<doctype type="text">July, 1892	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	69



saddle, The stop is let flush into the door-head and the lock put on in the usual way. No hardwood sliding-doors should ever he made without friction-strips, to save the arises and faces of the door's surface.

Sliding doors hung from above with sliding door hanger demand an entirely different treatment. The track being of wood and screwed on the partitions necessitates their being put on before the second partition forming the door pocket is put up. It is best to line pockets, for these doors, with matched ceiling to keep the door from being scratched. Concerning the fitting and adjustment of the hangers I would say there are many very excellent makes on the market and each has its own special features and special directions which are sufficiently clear and explanatory for any one of ordinary intelligence to work from. -

Fanlight levers, halts. etc.. are comparatively simple in their application and demand little or no direction, but the great thing to watch in putting on all hardware is to make it fit neatly, so that it may look well. All marking, therefore, should he exact to insure the piece fitting in its place and working freely, without sticking.





<article title="How to estimate" author="Hodson, W.H.">HOW TO ESTIMATE.

By <person>W. H. HODSON</person>.

Following is the balance of specification and bill of quantities accompanying the drawings of <building>Baptist Church, Walmer Road, Toronto</building>, published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for May:

PLUMBER AND GAS FITTER.

State reduction if gas piping he entirely omitted. Lay on from meter in basement best 1 in. tested iron piping to ceiling of auditorium and carry from thence to points marked on plans, commencing with 1 1/4 and diminishing to in, as required. Provide for three separate supplies, one to basement, porch and vestry building, one to the rest of ground floor, and one to the gallery. and place taps in places convenient of access in rear passage; all to he of best tested iron piping laid complete and made ready for fixtures with all necessary bends, junctions, &c., complete, and to he satisfactorily tested on completion. All drop lights to he taken out of side of supplies and in no case from the bottom—thoroughly secure to joists or timbers. Lay on water from line of street with 5/8 in. lead pipe of 8 lbs. lead to line of fixtures, and from thence in. 6 lbs. to sink, baptistry, W. C's. and hasins. Provide brass stop and waste cock immediately inside wall, and pipes to he graded to this point, Provide and set a double tube street washer hydrant where marked. Fit up in haseinent a cast iron sink 18 ft. long with 1 1/2 in. waste pipe of lead, Dubois trap and trap screw, brass fuller cock. The two water closets to he Malcolm's No. I. toilet, fitted up with cabinet work and double hinged hardware seats and having all necessary cranks, valves, &c., complete. There will he a 4 in. cast iron extra heavy soil pipe carried from W. C. 's. to drain. Extend the soil pipes a single pipe up to and ft. above roof with proper open tops to the same. Soil pipe to be coated on both sides with coal tar applied hot, and joints to be carefully caulked with oakum and lead. Provide two brass cleaning screws where directed. Basins to be 12 in, diameter with 1 1/4 in. counter sunk marble tops and backs 9 in. high, 1 1/2 in. lead waste, Dubois trap. plated plug and chain and plated self closing Hyde cocks. Line baptistry. which will he open. with 14 oz. tinned and planisned copper in best manner and provide 2 in. heavy lead waste and overflow properly trapped and carried into drain—plated rose plug and chain, Move and connect present double jacket heater now in school building with I in, heavy lead circulating  pipes to and from baptistry. Provide brass cock for emptying boiler with waste to baptistry waste. Provide galvanized iron smoke pipe and damper connected into chimney. Put 3 in, lead ventilators to traps of W. C's carried into soil pipe above fixtures and receiving 2 in. and 1 1/2 in. branches from traps of the other fixtures. All piping and materials to he of weights and description conforming to city by-laws.



PLASTERER.

All brick walls will be finished to show bricks, except in vestry and dressing room building. Plasterers will he required to exercise the most extreme care in order to preserve the pressed brick work from damage in any form. Supply the necessary cotton sheeting to prevent them being splashed with mortar. The inner face of outer brick walls of vestry building to be well parged, making tight and close at frames, etc. Lath with the best sawn pine laths the whole of the ceilings, partitions. soffits of gallery, battened walls in vestry building and other places, prepared for lathing; laths to be not more than I in, wide for ceilings and 1 1/4 in. for walls, 5/16 in. apart, well nailed, ends butted, and joints broken every 12th lath. '[he partitions and ceilings and soffits of gallery and other places prepared for lathing, to he plastered in best' three coat work, sand finish. All the corners will be of wood, Walls to be rendered behind all skirtings and sheetings. The mouldings of capitals of the 16 large columns (ground floor and gallery) to be in plaster freely executed. The folited capitals of the 8 columns in gallery to be in plaster modelled in most artistic manner by modeller to be chosen by the architects. The whole of the work to be of the best quality of materials and workmanship. the mortar to he prepared with clean sharp sand, lime and hair in proper proportions, and the work to be left free from cracks, stains, blisters, or other blemishes, and sound and perfect on completion after making good after other trades. Plasterer to leave all dressed woodwork clean and ready for painter. Remove all rubbish and broom clean floors throughout on completion.



PAINTER AND GLAZIER.

A separate tender is required for the lead glazing. Windows of basement to be glazed with —— sheet glass; windows of vestry and dressing rooms to be glazed with 16 oz. glass. the lower panes to be ground. Glass to be well puttied and back puttied, sashes to be primed before glazing. The iron columns to be painted three coats and picked out in bronze, iron work of principals to be painted three coats of blue and bolt heads gilt. The whole of the external woodwork usually painted, including window and door frames, eaves, &c., to be painted in three coats of best white lead and linseed oil paint of approved tints. Eaves, gutters and down pipes to be painted two coats. The whole of the internal wood work, unless otherwise described, including doors, casings, roof timbers, skirtings, sheetings, &c., &c., to be cleaned, stained to such tints as may be directed and twice varnished with best copal varnish. The riser s of gallery plates to receive one coat of stain in oil. Inside frames of windows to be painted three coats. The pulpit front, tracery over baptistry, doors of church and vestibules, vestibule screen, the strings, rails and balusters of staircase, and the gallery front will he of hardwood, to receive a thorough coat of oil, to be well filled with approved fillers, to receive two coats hard oil and rubbed down with pumice stone and sweet oil. Painter to clean sash windows and scrub floors before and after painting and leave glass perfect

on completion. The ceilings of church and vesitbule, tower and staircase, the walls in church when plastering, and the walls of ceilings of vestry to he calcimined in two coats of tints to be chosen.

LEAD GLAZING.



All the windows except basement and windows of vestry and dressing rooms (which are in painter's specification) will he glazed with leaded glass. also traceried heads of entrance doors and six sets of swing doors; all to be set in strong church lead, securely soldered and cemented and secured with strong copper wire to 1/2 round iron bars, properly japanned. Lead work to be bedded in frames in thin putty and slops to be closely nailed up to lead. Provide and fix as shown in elevations carefully fitted steel frame ventilators The windows in loft in be glazed with clear glass in simple quarries. The windows of porch and rear vestibule and third stage of tower to he glazed with rolled cathedral glass of approved tints and in small quarries. '[he other leaded windows, traceried fanlights and vestibule doors and screen, to be glazed with muffled cathedral glass of delicate tints in varying geometrical forms with rounde's and other features to be chosen by the architect. The six sets of swing doors will be glazed with clear glass set in lead made to geometrical forms with occasional roundels.



BILL OF QUANTITIES.

	PLUMBER AND GASFITTER.

176 lineal ft. of 5/8	in.	lead water pipe, 8 lbs. to the yard		- $ c.

400 lineal ft. of 1/2	in.	lead water pipe. 6 lbs. to the yard		-

  lineal ft. of 1 1/2	in.	lead waste pipe - -	-

18 lineal ft. of 2 in.		heavy lead waste pipe trapped '	-	-

230	lineal ft. of 4 in. iron gas piping - 

360 lineal ft. of 1 1/4 in. iron gas piping	-	-	-

556 lineal ft. of 1/2 in. iron gas piping	-	-	-

140	lineal ft. of 4 in. soil pipe (heavy) open traps, caulked with oakum and lead, coated with coal tar - 

 brass stop and waste cock -	 - -

1 double tube street washer hydrant	  -

1 cast iron sink 18 ft. long - -

I Dubois trap and screw -	-	-	-

 brass fuller cock - -	-	 -	-

2 Malcolm's No. 1 toilet water closets		hinged,	hardware	seat,

   cranks, valves, etc., complete	 -	 -	-

2 brass cleaning screws to soil pipe	 -	 -	 - -

2 12 in. dia. basins. 1 1/4 in. counter	sunk	marble	tops,	backs,

   etc - - - - -		  -

2 Dubois plated plug and chain	-	-	-	-

2 plated self closing Hyde cocks	-	-	 -	 -

1 plated rose plug and chain -	  -	  -	 -

1 brass cock emptying boilers with waste to bapistry waste 

1\	galvanized iron smoke pipe and damper to chimney. 3 lead ventilating pipes connected to soil pipe with branches

	from traps	- -	- -	- -

1 rear basement water closet, etc., complete in working order

Lining baptistry with 14 oz. copper		- -

Move and connect present heater with inch pipes to and from baptistry

Traps, bends, junctions, holdfast, etc., to gas pipes, joints leaded, left ready for fixtures

State deduction if gas piping be entirely omitted	-	-	-

	PLASTERING.

22O7 1/2 supl. yards of 3 coats work -	-	-	- -

188 23 supl. yards of 1 coat and rendering		-	-	-

16 plaster copetals, moulded, etc

8 foliated copetals, gallery

Supply cotton sheeting to prevent damage by splashing

Parge inner face of walls as specified, tight and close to frames

Leave wood work clean for painter, remove rubbish, clean hoot,

	etc. · on completion.	-	-	- -	-

	PAINTING AND GLAZING.

654 supl. yards of 3 coats painting	-	- -	- - $	c.

1655-supl. yards of staining and 2 coats varnishing - 70 supl. yards of coats, picked in bronze - - -

13	supl. yards of coats, blue, bolt heads in gilt - 

28 supl. yards of 1 coat stain in oil	-	- -	-

175	1/2 supl. yards of 1 coat, oil filled, 2 coats, rubbed down, etc

213	supl. yards of 2 coats, painting eaves, gutters. etc -

2763 supl. yards of calcimining in 2 tints		- -	-

6oo supl. yards of sheet glazing	-	-	- -

Glazing vestry and drawing-room windows with 16 oz. glass,

	lower panes ground	- -	- -	-

	LEAD GLAZING.



953	supl. yards of lead glazing, soldered and cemented, etc

75 supl. yards of clear lead glazing	-	-	-

172 supl. yards clear glazing loft windows	-	-

203	supl. yards of rolled cathedral glazing -

100 supl. yards of muffeled cathedral glazing	-	-

Providing steel frame ventilators as per elevation carefully fitted





<article title="Canadian Building Stones" author="Bartlett, F.">CANADIAN BUILDING STONES.

PETERBORO, ONT., June 7th, 1892.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—Can you inform me as to the address of the proprietors of the Credit Valley stone quarries? I should think that it would be well for them to advertise in your paper.

Some time ago you promised us a report of a test to be conducted at the School of Practical Science of the different kinds of building stone. I have not yet seen the report, but would like to, as I am desirous of getting information as to where the different kinds of stone could be obtained.

I remain, yours respectfully,

<person>F.BARTLETT</person>.





A new system of builders' scaffolds is said to have been invented by a Duluth, Minn., man, who claims that his device will save at least 30 per cent. of the cost of laying brick wall by the use of the present system of lumber scaffolding. The new scaffold is made of aluminum and steel, is light, strong and durable, and is moved upward by a set of simple levers as the wall progresses upward, always keeping the bricklayer's material directly in front of him.

