

<doctype type="text">claims that the advantage gained in this respect is so small as to be altogether inadequate to compensate for the great decrease in strength. It may be added, that, when he has urged architects to specify English and Flemish bond, he has been told that builders would refuse to construct them without an exorbitant increase of cost, being actually bound by the journeymen bricklayers to lay only the system of bonding they have been used to. This idea is doubtless exaggerated because no small proportion of working bricklayers are foreigners and are well acquainted with the correct methods of laying English and Flemish bonds.

But whatever bond is used in the construction of walls, there are certain other points of importance that are only too frequently overlooked. The first of these that may be mentioned is "damp courses." In Europe the use of damp courses is rendered compulsory by the building laws in most large cities. A damp course, if constructed of proper materials, is absolutely effectual in preventing the rising of moisture by capillary attraction from the earth and the consequent dampness of the walls.

"How to cure (lamp walls," is a question that is propounded to the architects' and builders' journals very frequently by house owners and others who are suffering from this trouble, and who not infrequently state that they have tried the application of various kinds of paint to the surface of the walls with the only result of driving the moisture higher up the wall. In such cases an effectual remedy may be found in inserting damp courses throughout the wall, underpinning it as may be necessary, although, of course, the damp course should have been inserted when the wall was built.

A good damp course may be constructed of three layers of common roofing slates, laid in cement with the joints lapping, the edges of the slates projecting to about an inch or so beyond the side of the wall. The damp course, of whatever kind it is, should he put in Just above the ground line. A layer of Portland cement (that is, cement mixed with water without the addition of sand) spread over the surface of the wall, to the thickness of three fourths of an inch, makes a very effective damp course, as does also a layer of bituminous asphalt laid in the same way. Sheet lead is also used and possesses the advantage of yielding somewhat to the inequalities of the brick or stone, and by that means distributing the weight more equally over the area. Damp courses may be constructed of other materials in fact anything that is absolutely impervious to moisture and may be applied to the thickness of the walls is suitable.

While the fact that damp courses are very little used can but occasion surprise to those who have had an opportunity of having seen them in constant use, the fact that hollow or cavity walls are so used is even more surprising. Brick buildings, when standing in isolated positions may always be erected with advantage with a cavity wall, because any moisture passing through the outer casing cannot find its way into the interior of the building. Cavity walls are constructed of what are practically two walls, built side by side parallel and at a distance apart of about two inches, the two casings being closely tied together either by brick or by iron ties specially made for the purpose inserted in every fourth course at a distance apart of about two feet six inches. The wall, from the foundation up to the ground line, is built solid, and on the top is formed a damp course upon which two cavities are built. The portion between the cavities thus forms a gutter and is constructed with a fall so as to allow any water that may find its way in to run down the drains with which the cavity is connected. Sheet lead or sheet zinc is inserted over all door and window openings. In case of brick and-a-half walls, which consists of one brick wall and a half brick wall, connected as described, it will be a subject of consideration as to whether a thicker or thinner casing should go on the outside. As a rule a thicker is preferred on the exterior, as it offers the greater resistance to the moisture finding its way in ; but in any case it is well to observe that the floor and roofing timbers should always rest on the thicker casing.

One of the most important advantages of hollow cavity walls is the important influence it has on the temperature of the house. The two inch space of air in the centre of the wall acts as a sort of a non-conductor, and the variations in the atmosphere are felt to anything like so great a degree as they are when the walls are built solid. In other words, houses built with these walls are warmer in winter and cooler in summer.

Another point of construction that may be referred to is the hoop iron bond , this costs so little and adds so much to the strength of the brickwork that it is a difficult to understand why its use has not become general Hoop iron used for this purpose is about an eighth of an inch thick, and one and a half inches broad. It is laid in every fourth course right along the wall, one row of hoop iron being inserted for each half brick in the wall's thickness; the hoop iron is riveted at the angles. In order to prevent the iron from lusting. it is covered with tar of zinc. The edges are generally jagged with the object of getting a better grip of the mortar, and the hoop iron holds the wall together and assists in distributing weight and is in every way desirable. Its cost is little, and the work it does great.

The writer, in preparing the above, has only referred to one or two of the more important directions in which it would appear that an improvement might be made in the construction of brick-work. Architects and builders have now better facilities for producing perfect brickwork than they ever had in the history of the world and they should make it a matter of pride to see that the most perfect building material approaches as nearly as possible to perfection in construction. Arthur Seymour Jennings 'n The Brick Builder.



<article title="The Architect and the Contractor" author="Hurst Brown, Edward">THE ARCHITECT AND THE CONTRACTOR.

BY <person>EDWARD HURST BROWN</person>



' O wad some power the giftie give us,

Tat see oorsels as others see us"



It may be very well for the poet to write that way, hut how many of us, I wonder, would feel highly flattered if we really knew what other folks think of us, down deep in their hearts. I have read with interest the reports of the various conventions of master painters as they have occurred from time to time, and while I have seen recorded there many words of self glorification and self satisfaction, as is perfectly natural unfortunately most of the members seem so carried away with enthusiasm of tile moment, that they forget there may be others who do not always look upon the performances of painters and decorators in general through the same rose tinted spectacles that these estimable gentlemen do themselves. Now I hope, my dear readers, if you have not become restive and sought some other article, before reading thus far, that you will bear with me patiently, even if I do say some few unpleasant things. Remember, it is not you I am talking about it is the other fellow, that poor slouch who never read the Painter's Magazine, or the old timer who is so set in his old fogy notions that he never can believe that there is any other way to do a job than the way he learned some thirty or forty years ago. Of course you are too progressive not to fall in at once with an architect's notions, so you won't feel offended at what I may have to say. I have not failed to notice that you are all fond of having a little fling at the architects, not only in your conventions but in the columns of the magazines. Sly digs now and then or perhaps letters complaining of the manner in which these autocrats of the T square dictate to you, and insist that you shall do things as they want, and not as you would perhaps do otherwise. Now, is it not fair play that I, as an architect, may say a few words from the architect's point of view? Don't forget that this much abused personage occupies a very peculiar and delicate position in the erection of the building. The owner goes to him and regards him as a professional adviser, much the same as he consults a lawyer or a doctor. In this capacity he prepares the plans for the work in hand and writes the specifications for it. Here his advisory capacity ends and he becomes the agent of the owner, and, as such, proceeds to make contracts on behalf of the owner and see that they are properly carried out. But, as agent he has no authority whatever to alter in one jot or tittle the drawings or the specifications which he has prepared as the professional adviser. Moreover, he is legally responsible to the owner, in as great a degree as the contractor, for any deviations made by the mechanics employed upon the work. Although in his professional capacity he is responsible for any errors he may make in plans or specifications involving either questions of stability or adaptability to the purposes intended by the owner, as set forth in the instructions given to the architect, still, as agent he has neither power nor authority to modify these plans or specifications in the slightest degree, nor to allow any variation from them without the consent of the owner. When the building is

