<doctype type="text">80

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

August, 1892



completed it is the architect who has to bear the blame and shoulder the responsibility for all defects in either workmanship, material, or faulty or inartistic designing. The contractor, more especially the sub-contractor, is rarely thought of by the owner. He is supposed in his work merely to carry out the instructions given to him by the architect.

I have entered into this rather full account of the relations existing between the owner and the architect because I think, as a rule, they are very little understood. Most mechanics regard the architect, in his capacity as supervisor of the work, as having absolute authority to order or permit changes or extra work at his own sweet will without regard to the owner, who stands back of the architect and is the teal party to the contract. Hence, they feel little or no compunction about changing the methods or materials designated by the specifications if, in their opinion a better job may be obtained, or one which they believe would be more creditable to them or more workmanlike, relying on the good nature of the architect to permit such changes, if detected by him. As a rule, he is not consulted beforehand. Now, this may be, and frequently is, done with the most honest intentions in the world. The work substituted for that specified may be just as strong, just as durable, and perhaps may be even better, and may cost the contractor more money. But (and this "but" is a very strong one), the contract is not carried out, and though the work may be better, though both architect and con tractor may be able to prove it so, the owner can, if he wishes (and sometimes he does wish to do it) bring suit against the architect and recover heavy damages, sometimes many times in excess of the fee charged for professional services. As a case in point I know of a firm of architects who were compelled to spend three times the fee they received on a certain building in order to pay their lawyer for defending them in a suit brought by an owner under circumstances precisely similar. Fortunately, they were enabled to prove to the satisfaction of the jury that the work did not differ materially from that specified, or they would have been mulcted in heavy damages as well. Hence, the architect's position is by no means a bed of roses, and it seems to me to be a little unfair in the mechanic who is called upon to do the work in accordance with certain definite specifications, to set himself up as superior to the contract, to feel that the architect is not treating him fairly in setting forth in definite terms the manner of doing the work, and to complain because the architect particularly calls for certain specified materials. You may say that you, having devoted your lives to a certain trade, ought to know more about it than an architect who has never handled a brush or mixed a pot of paint in his life. Undoubtedly you do about the practical application of the principles which govern your work, though you may not know as much of those principles as the architect whose knowledge of the subject you are trying to treat with contempt.

Doubtless you may come across foolish or carelessly drawn specifications. There are careless, young, or inexperienced architects, just as there are careless, young and inexperienced lawyers or doctors. But remember it is the architect who is responsible for the carelessly drawn specifications, not you. If you are afraid that doing a job in the manner specified will injure your reputation as a painter, you are privileged to refuse to estimate upon the work; or, having done so, you need not sign a contract for it if, in your judgment, the specification calls upon you to do a poor, unworkmanlike job. It is your privilege before entering into a contract to object to any of its terms, and to insist or request, as the case may be, that it be modified be fore you sign it; but having once signed a contract to do work under certain specifications, whether this contract be a direct one with the owner, or an indirect one through a builder, you are bound both morally and legally to fulfill that contract to the letter, and any variation therefrom without the consent of the other party is dishonest, even though your variation may make what you deem to be an improvement in the manner of executing the work. Now, these are plain words, but when you come to look upon a contract in its full legal aspect, and to view it from every side of the question, you cannot fail to see I am right.

You may think an architect should not specify any particular material to be used, but I say an architect is bound to use his professional knowledge to discover what he believes to be the best material and mode of executing the work to suit the particular case on hand, and to further the interests of his client

not necessarily to make the best possible job in every case, but to make the job best adapted to that special piece of work. If the architect considers his client's interests are best served by the use of a certain kind of varnish, or a certain make of ready mixed paint, he is bound, in duty to his employer, to specify accordingly, and the painter who accepts the contract under those particular conditions is equally bound to see that these materials ate used upon the job. I know of one case where, owing to certain personal and business relations existing between the owner of several houses and a certain firm manufacturing a special brand of ready mixed paints, the architect received definite instructions to specify that particular brand. The painter, knowing nothing of the circumstances, and not having much confidence in the paint in question, mixed his own colors, to match in shade the numbers specified by the architect. The consequence was that the architect, having failed to require the compliance with the contract, was held responsible by the owner, though fortunately a law suit was avoided, but the paint manufacturers withdrew a very important business relationship from the owner of the houses. Can any possible process of reasoning justify that painter for having departed from the strict letter of the specifications?

Then again the architect is looked to for the artistic effect of the building, and may specify that the work shall be done in a particular manner, in order to obtain a result which he knows will please him, and his client as well, although it may look rough and unfinished to the mechanic who has been trained up to do the work in a different manner. I know in one case I wished to obtain a certain effect on oak wood, and specified that the work was to have a light coat of paint, which was to be wiped off with a cloth, then followed by two coats of varnish rubbed to a dull gloss. When the work was finished I expected to see the texture of the wood plainly. Judge of my horror when I found that the painter, thinking I had made a mistake in my specification, and had neglected to specify any filler, without consulting me in any way, filled the oak with paste filler before applying the paint. The whole scheme of the work was changed, and the effect I was trying to obtain was lost. Moreover, a special hanging, which was being made to harmonize with the rough woodwork, seemed strangely out of place with the smooth surfaced wood. At another time I had occasion to paint a certain studio wall, and mixing some Indian red and raw sienna to get just the tint I wanted, gave a light wash of water color over the paper, in such a manner that the brownish gray background showed through the color. I instructed the painter that this was the effect I wanted on the wall, which was to be done in water color. When I next visited the room I was horrified to find a solid coat of color on the walls ; the shade was matched, it was true, but the effect was totally different from my instructions. Fortunately, in this case, I could set the men to work with sponges to wash off the superfluous color, and get very near the effect originally intended.

Now don't for a moment think that all mistakes and all disregard to the terms of the specifications are confined to the painters. Other mechanics are just as apt to err, or to set themselves up as superior to the architect. But I do want you to bear in mind that the architect is the responsible head, and that it is better in most cases to follow his instructions than to think your way is best. Don't think that every time he specifies a particular brand of varnish or color, or calls for a special make of white lead, that he is actuated by underhand bribes from the manufacturer. I can tell you, and I know well what I am talking about, that not one reputable architect in a hundred will accept a bribe or an illicit commission as an inducement to specify particular makes of goods, and the manufacturers who attempt to offer such commission usually get sadly left. I do not speak of the self-styled builder architects of small country towns. I don't know what they may do, though I hope they are honest; but I refer to the educated, conscientious, painstaking members of the profession whose practice is in the great cities, and who make up the membership of the American Institute of Architects. If you wish to bring them into sympathy with you, don't sulk in corners, call names, and say you won't play, like silly boys, but get them interested in your associations and your conventions, and you will soon bring about a better relationship between your trade and the architects of the country. Painters' Magazine.

