<doctype type="text">September, 1892	91

<article title="Hamilton" author="">HAMILTON

 THERE is a fair amount of work going on here and prospects are rather encouraging. Messrs. <firm>Wood, Vallance & Co</firm>. will erect a large hard ware ware-house at the corner of Hughson and King William Sts. under the direction of Architect <person>Stewart.</person>

There is some talk of putting up an office building one corner of James and Main Sts., where at present there are some old wooden  shanties which badly need pulling down Architect

Hills is putting up a weigh house at the John St. Market Architect <person>Balfour </person>is going to put up a Grand Stand for the Hamilton Jockey Club to seat  about 2,000 people, and also a Road and Club House.



The remodelling of the <building>Grand Opera House Hamilton </building>is nearly completed The accommodation will be largely increased, and for the amount of money

expended the effect will be fairly good, but the carving is lifeless and too coarse In some places where it is only a few feet from the spectator, it is coarse enough for the top of the building, and the faces of dramatic and musical celebrities are mere caricatures. It is a great mistake to introduce the human figure in carving unless it is going to be executed thoroughly well.

<building>Mr. <person>Geo. Tuckett'</person>s large residence </building>on Queen St. is rapidly rising from the ground and looks very well, the carving, however, is so far disappointing, it has the common fault of being too coarse and lacks spirit It is mostly in Victorian Gothic" style with a little Italian Renaissance thrown in as it

Architect <person>Mills </person>is building a <building>Sunday School for Zion Tabernacle hamilton</building>at the were, a rather incongruous medley?

corner of Pearl and Napier Ste., which is nearly completed.

There are a number of private residences being erected in all parts of the city



<article title="Conditions of Contract" author="">CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT.

THE following conditions of contract have been adopted by the <assoc>Queensland Institute of Architects </assoc>and <assoc>Queensland Builders and Contractors' Association</assoc>

1.	In the construction of these conditions and specifications, the singular number of the following words—namely, "employer," "contractor," "architect "—shall, where necessary. be taken to include the plural, the word "employer" shall mean the person or persons entering into the agreement with the "contractor", the word "architect "shall mean the architect or firm of architects entrusted with supervision of the works.

2.	The contractor, unless otherwise directed by the architect, is to provide all plant, scaffolding, tools, labour, and materials necessary for the due and proper execution of the several works included in this contract, according to the true intent and meaning of the drawings and specification taken together

3.	The architect during the progress of the works shall be the sole judge of all matters arising out of the contract, so far as relates to the quality of materials and workmanship, the interpretation and meaning of the plans and specification. the rate of progress, and the general management of the works , and against his decision, provided it he just and impartial, there shall be no appeal. Wherever the dimensions are written or printed upon the drawings, such dimensions shall be taken in preference to the measurement by scale In the event of any discrepancy between the drawings and specification the architect is to decide which shall be followed.

4.	The whole of the works comprised in this contract shall be executed with materials of approved quality of their several kinds, in the most substantial and workmanlike manner, and to the entire satisfaction of toe architect.

 All work and materials deposited on the ground, adjoining ground, or pathway by the contractor or by his order, for the purpose of forming part of the works, and on which an advance has been made, are to be considered the property of the employer, and the same are not to be removed or taken away by the contractor or any other person without the written consent of the architect. The employer is not to be in any way answerable for any loss or damage which may happen to any such work or materials, either by the same being lost or stolen or injured by weather or otherwise

6.	Should any workmanship not in accordance with plans and specification or materials of improper or inferior description be introduced in any part of the works, the contractor shall, upon receiving the architect's written instructors, cause such workmanship or materials to be removed; and if the instructions so given shall not have been carried out within the time stated for that purpose. the architect may em ploy other persons to remove the objectionable workmanship or materials, and all expenses, loss, or damage thereby incurred shall be charged against the contractor, and be deducted from any money due or that may become due to him.

7.	The architect shall have power from time to time, but only by an order in writing, to make any alteration, whether additions or deductions from the works as set forth in the accompanying drawings and specification. In the event of any such alterations being made, the contract shall not be vitiated but the value thereof, if not previously agreed upon, shall he fairly and justly fixed by the architect in accordance with the schedule of prices annexed, if any, or where same may net apply, at fair measure and value In case of disagreement between the architect and contractor as to the value of such alteration, advantage may be taken of the "arbitration clause hereinafter provided.

8.	The building from the commencement of the works to the completion of same is to be under the contractor's charge, he will be held responsible for, and must make good all damages occasioned by any cause whatsoever, except such damages be caused by lightning, unusual floods, or earthquakes (provided such damage does not arise through any neglect of the contractor ), and he is to hold his employer harmless from any claimed for injuries to persons, or for damage to property through he neglect

9.	The contractor is to insure the building in an approved office, in the joint names of the employer and contractor, against loss or damage by fire, for the full amount of the contract as soon as the building shall be covered in (or in the case of wooden buildings, as soon as the framework is erected), and must lodge with the architect the policies or "cover notes." and receipts for the premiums for such insurance. All money received under any such policies are to be applied in or towards the rebuilding or reparation of the works destroyed or injured. In case of neglect on the part of the contractor to insure, the employer may do so and deduct the amount of the premiums paid from any moneys due to the contractor

10.	The contractor shall not absent himself from the works without having a fully authorized and competent foremsn or agent to act on his behalf. Any notice or order given to or served upon such foreman or agent, shall be considered as served upon the contractor, who will be held personally responsible for his proceedings and acts

11.	The contractor shall not sublet the work or any part thereof, without the permission of the architect. The architect may order the discharge of any workman for misconduct or incompetency, and such order shall be immediately acted upon by the contractor.

12.	The contractor will be held liable for all violations of law caused by obstructing streets, side-walks, etc He must give to the local authorities all requisite notices, and must obtain official licenses for boarding enclosures, opening into common sewers, etc., and pay all proper and legal fees and charges. The contractor must keep up lights, etc , as required, construct proper enclosures, fences, and walks, for the protection and convenience 01 the public during the progress of the works In case of any necessary excavation, the contractor must give due notice thereof to the proprietor or his agent, as also to the occupier of the immediately adjoining premises, and he will be bound to make good any damage that may be caused to such adjoining premises or buildings.

13.	The contractor shall set Out all the works comprised in this contract, hut the employer shall survey and peg out the boundaries of the land on which the buildings are to be erected and point out to the contractor prior to the commencement of the works all such surveys, boundaries and pegs.

14.	Should the contractor not commence operations within seven days after the date of signing the contract, or should it at any time appear so the architect that there are not sufficient workmen engaged upon the works, or that there is not sufficient material upon the ground to enable the works to be completed by the specified time, the contractor shall, within 48 hours after receiving notice in writing from the architect, commence operations, or cause such number of competent workmen to be employed, or such quantity of material to be placed upon the site as he may direct. Should the contractor refuse or neglect to commence operations, or to employ such additional workmen, or to place such quantity of material on the site, or at any time during the progress of the works refuse or decline to execute any thing set forth in the drawings and specification, or that may be ordered by the architect as necessary for the proper execution of the works, the employer. by the architect, may after giving three days notice to the contractor, take possession of the works and adopt such means as may seem best for the completion thereof. The costs so incurred in finishing the works with all charges for overtime shall be borne and paid by the contractor, and shall be deducted from any moneys due, or that may become due to him.

15.	If the contractor shall become bankrupt, or compound with or make any assignment for the benefit of his creditors, or shall suspend or delay the performance of his part of the contract, the employer, by the architect, may give to the contractor or his sureties, or assignee, or trustee as the case may he, notice requiring the works to be proceeded with, and in case of default on part of the contractor, or his sureties, or assignee, or trustee, for a period of—daya, it shall be lawful for the employer, by the architect to enter upon and take possession of the works, and to em ploy any other person or persons to carry on and complete the same, and to authorize him or them to use the plant, 'materials, and property of the contractor upon the works, and the cost and charges incurred in any way in carrying on and completing the said works are to be paid to the employer by the contractor, or may be set

