<doctype type="text">September, 1892	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	89



<article title="the Verandah in Australian Domestic Architecture" author="Campbell, W.M.">THE VERANDAH IN AUSTRALIAN DOMESTIC

ARCHITECTURE.*

   WHAT feature has more

 - importance and prominence in the designs of our houses, or is a more useful adjunct to the public necessary living and of the plan verandah? Such has been the effect of its good  matter how a  is or how





 details, if the omitted or in an inconspicuous position, the public object and say, "What a bare looking building " or "It looks more like a State school than a house." In treating of the subject one naturally divides it into two parts—first, the practical uses and position of the verandah with reference to the plan ; secondly, its treatment as an architectural feature.

The position of the verandah in respect to aspect is one of the chief points for consideration under the first head. The protection of the northern and western walls and windows from the hot summer sun usually decides its position, although for a summer evening lounge the western aspect is absolutely useless. In the cooler weather it might be so used, especially if the prospect is good, although the northern aspect will always be found more serviceable. Besides affording a protection to a building from the heat of the summer sun the verandah also serves to shield the walls from driving rain, such as we had experience of last July, which seems capable of penetrating almost any exposed wall of ordinary thickness, In the use of verandahs for winter exposures it must be always borne in mind that every room in the house should, where possible, receive the sun's direct rays into it during some period of the day, and that the more the southern and eastern walls of a house are exposed to the light of day the healthier will the house be. I think that even the rooms facing north and west should be designed so as not to be too closely sheltered from direct light, and that some means of introducing light above the level of the verandah roof or by glass skylights in the roof (opposite the windows of the rooms) ought to be made use of on the darker sides of the house if covered by verandah or balcony. By such means, and the use of movable blinds or shutters, the lighting and cheerfulness of a room could be completely under control, and many rooms cold and dark in winter brightened and made more habitable, whilst features might be made of the lighting in such a way as to improve the design. An illustration of a house was published some time ago in a professional journal in which this plan was adopted. So far, I have only been taking into consideration the lean-to shade so generally adopted here which does duty both for a protection to the house, an open-air living room, and as often as not simply a source of pride to its owner, especially, I am sorry to say, if showing a lavish display of cast-iron vegetation. It is to our American cousins that we are indebted for the most thoughtful arrangement of the verandah as regards both practical use and appearance. In many cases it can hardly be called a verandah ; "piazza" is the name they give it, and it forms what really is an open-air living-room of rectangular plan and independent roof. It is open on three sides, but can easily be enclosed at pleasure by means of blinds or shades. It is usually on a secluded side of the house and facing the garden, approached from a side-door or garden entrance, and has the advantage over our usual narrow form of being wide enough to allow all to sit face to face. For the summer weather nothing seems more adapted to this climate, and yet it has come very little into use, people preferring the long narrow strip of floor to the roomier plan. As to the balcony, although most of the fore' *From a paper by Mr. <person>W. M. Campbell</person>, read at a meeting of the <assoc>Victorian

Institute of Architects</assoc>, and published in the Australasian Builder.

going applies to both verandah and balcony, it is of course not so much used as an open-air resort, being on the bedroom floor and in a more private position. It therefore may be of smaller area and accessible both from rooms and from some public thoroughfare. Its prospect, of course, will influence its position, but the protection it affords will be its chief use.

Having thus far only dealt with the verandah as a convenience, I will next turn to its treatment as an architectural feature, but before doing so would like to draw your attention to its appearance and use in the styles which are the basis of the architecture of the present day. It is not necessary to go further back than the Greek temples, the colonnades of which are familiar to you as their chief embellishment, as well as being a convenient shelter from sun or shower. The same, of course, are found in the Roman examples, sometimes in the form of a portico, and sometimes in the complete peripheral arrangement. In the houses we find the prototype of the Gothic cloisters in the peristylum, a central open court with a fountain in the centre and a covered colonnade all round, where sun or shade might he enjoyed at pleasure. This feature became the cloisters of the Gothic, in which the ecclesiastics took their exercise, and on which the Gothic architect displayed his most elegant taste, if not his highest genius. These are found connected with nearly all religious establishments of the Middle Ages, surrounding as they did in old Roman houses a central square or garden. These cloisters, or rather the arcades dividing the cloisters from the open squares, exhibit some of the finest examples of Romanesque, with their richly carved shafts and arches. The Moors, too, loaded this feature with a lavishness of ornament, brilliance of color and gracefulness of form that have been the admiration of us ever since. The private courtyard, with its surrounding cloister or arcades, remained in extensive use in Italy and Spain tight throughout the Renaissance, as many of the palaces testify, whilst the external colonnade is also to be found, as for example in the Gothic palace of the Doges at Venice, and the later Renaissance of the library in the same square. Beyond its introduction in the porticoes of the Renaissance, the external use of this feature did not find much favor in England. Sunlight was too highly valued, and obstructions to it were avoided. There is, however, one very curious instance of its use to be found in Chester, where the first floor walls right along the streets are recessed some 8 or 9 feet back, making a covered walk which is continuous along the top of the ground-floor shops. The storeys above, which are supported on heavy wooden posts, keep the line of the ground floor and form a roof over the first floor balcony. This peculiar feature of Chester struck me as very curious when I first saw it, and as far as I know it is unique. It would be interesting to hear what was its origin if any present can explain it. It is in the East, in India, China, and Japan, however, that we have the most extensive use of the outside verandah. There its necessary application to the smaller buildings and houses brought it into use in simpler and lighter forms than we find in Europe. The materials, too, being less massive, tended to alter its appearance to a less imposing structure, and although the large temples and palaces were surrounded by ponderous pillars and elaborately-covered approaches the houses, especially in Japan and China, were of very light construction little more than open-air verandahs or living-rooms separated and enclosed by screens and mats, From the architecture of these nations a good deal could be learnt as regards the design of picturesque and effective verandahs, which in their hands are always artistic and usefully simple.

As external features the verandah and balcony have great importance, many domestic buildings here carrying all their architecture on their verandahs, while their prominence and the strong effects of light and shade which they afford often make them the governing features of the design. In many of our larger mansions they form arcades or colonnades surrounding the building, with columns and orders of the same material as the main block and after the manner of the Italian Renaissance, and if of good design give an imposing and substantial appearance. They are seldom, however, treated with much picturesqueness in this style, and so have a formal and somewhat depressing effect (especially if carried out in stucco), which suggests a similarly formal interior. The less stiff intermixture of Classic detail and Gothic grouping which we find so picturesquely blended in the later Elizabethan architecttire of such buildings as Holland House,

