	<doctype type="text">92	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	September, 1892



off by the employer against any money due, or that may become due to the contractor.

16. The contractor is to complete and deliver up the whole works which are included in this contract on or before the—day of——, in default thereof he shall become liable for the sum of——— per — for each and every

—that the work remains unfinished or undelivered after the said—day of—provided that possession of the premises be given the contractor. and lines and levels of the building furnished him, within——days of the acceptance of tender. All such sums to be deducted from the balance due and charged as by the way of liquidated and ascertained damages for delay of the works, or for cause of damages as per clause 8, and not as a penalty. Reasonable allowance in the time for completion of contract shall be made for delay of works on account of bad weather, legal holidays, and strikes amongst the workmen employed.

17.	Payment shall be made to the contractor at intervals during the progress of the work, as follows—viz , upon the certificate of the architect, at the rate of——per cent, upon the value of the work actually executed. The remaining——per cent, shall be paid after the architect has certified that the contractor has executed and completed the work to his satisfaction, except a sum equal to 2 1/2 per cent, on the total amount of the contract, which shall be retained for a period of——weeks from the date of the last or final certificate in order to ensure the execution of any reinstating of improper or defective work that may be required by the architect during the above period; such reinstating shall be performed to the satisfaction of the architect before the contractor shall be entitled to receive the said balance of 2 1/2 per cent. No payment whatsoever, whether progressive or final, will be made except upon the certificate of the architect.

18.	No progressive certificate is so cover or relieve the contractor from his liability under the provisions of clause No. 6, whether or not the same be certified by the architect at the time of or subsequently to granting any such certificate.

19.	The certificates for payment of installments are to be payable at sight by the employer, and the contractor shall, in addition to his right of his immediate action on nonpayment of any such certificates, have also the following rights and remedies

1.	If the employer shall make default in paying any moneys to which the contractor may become entitled for seven days after the certificate of the architect has been presented to the employer for payment , or

2.	If the work be delayed 28 days for or by reason of or under any legal proceedings taken by any other parties and not being caused by the neglect, default, or laches of the contractor, or seeking any remedy or claiming injunction in consequence of any neglect, default, or laches of the contractor, the contractor is to be at liberty at his option to suspend the works, and to require payment for all works executed. and all materials wrought up, and for any lass which he may have sustained upon any goods or materials purchased for the works, and in such case the contractor is not to be bound io proceed further with the works contracted for. The contractor is to be entitled to bank interest upon all moneys payable to him, payment of which may have been unduly delayed.

20.	All drawings and papers whatever, supplied by the architect, are to be kept by the contractor on the works, and the contractor hereby undertakes not unnecessarily to expose or use them for any other purpose whatever than that for which they are held in trust by him—viz.. the execution of the works contracted for, and, further, that he will, upon receiving his final certificate, return all such drawings and papers to the architect.

21.	In case any dispute shall arise between the employer, or the architect on his behalf, and the contractor touching the value of any alterations, additions, or deductions, as referred to in clause 7. or as to sums to be deducted as liquidated damages for overtime. see clause 16, or as to cause of damages to works referred to under clause 8, the dispute shall be referred to the decision of two arbitrators, one of whom shall be a fellow of the <assoc>Queensland Institute of Architects</assoc>, and the other a member of the <assoc>Builders and Contractors' Association of Queensland</assoc>, with power to appoint an umpire. The decision of any two of the arbitrators or of the umpire, shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned, and from it there shall be no appeal. The award is to be made within seven days, or such extended period as the arbitrators may decide upon from the date of submission, and it shall direct by whom and in what proportion the costs of such arbitration shall be paid.

22.	In case the contractor or employer should neglect to appoint an arbitrator within one calendar month next after a request duly made, or after the time specified for the appointment of the arbitrators and determination of the matter as aforesaid, the employer or the contractor, as the case may be, may appoint an arbitrator on behalf of the other party, and the arbitrator so appointed shall have the same powers and authorities as if he had been appointed by the contractor or the employer, as the case may be Forthwith upon the appointment of the arbitrators they shalt proceed to hear and determine the matter so referred to arbitration

23 This submission to rterence, and the award thereon, shall become a rule of the Supreme Court of Queensland on the application of either party to this contract.

These are conditions referred to in the annexed agreement, made on the

—day of—between the undersigned for— In the presence of— The <firm>Toronto Pressed Brick Co</firm>, the <firm>Ontario Terra Cotta and Brick Co.,</firm>

and Messrs. <firm>Taylor Bros</firm>., of Toronto, bad each a very creditable exhibit at the Industrial Fair. The last mentioned Company also exhibited samples of glazed bricks in various colors of their own manufacture.

Manufactures and Materials <article title="Porous terra cotta" author="">POROUS TERRA COTTA.

TERRA cotta for fireproofing does not appear to be as extensively used in England as has been the case here, observes Architecture and Building. We note that special mention is made of an experiment made last month at Bishop's <person>Waltham Hants</person>. The experiment was made in a little building of the dimensions of one room of an ordinary house, with brick sides and a terra cotta floor above, the pieces being so dovetailed as to render it almost hermetically sealed. The floor was reached by means of a wide stair case, with an ornamental balustrade, resembling that of carved oak. In the room below faggots of wood were piled up to the ceiling. Round these at the bottom were placed tar barrels, with a layer of straw The mass was set on fire and the fire burnt with great intensity. While this was going on most of the visitors ascended the staircase and stood on the floor, feeling the slabs from time to time to see if toe beat was making any impression on them, but throughout the whole trial they maintained almost the same temperature, being quite cold. By-and-by the fierce flames lapped themselves round the staircase, cutting off retreat by that way. and had it been constructed of wood short work would have been made of it. However, beyond being slightly blackened with smoke, it remained as impassive as the floor above. The room was one mass of white heat, resembling in color molten lead. Had the floor fallen in at that time cremation would have been the fate of those in it, The party remained on the roof from half to three quarters of an hour a sufficient period to put the experiment to the severest teat and so little had they felt the heat below Inst many shivered with cold. Immediately the visitors descended, a large number of the workmen and boys ran up the stairs and jumped about on the floor, which apparently had not in any way been affected by the great heat, though the fire continued In burn for a considerable time afterward. This porous terra cotta fire proofing material. which is being extensively manufactured at Deseronto, Ont., has gone largely into use in the erection of important buildings in Montreal and Toronto, during the last three years It may be used to equal advantage in connection with brick, stone or wooden construction





<article title="quality of brick" author="">QUALITY OF BRICK.

THREE main points with reference to brick have to be taken into account, says The Brickmaker, 1, The power of resistance under pressure, 2, the appearance of the fracture, which should present an even texture, and a fine brilliant grain, without cavities in the interior, and neither ribbony norstony, 3, the exterior, which should be smooth and regular, the angles and edges sharp and straight. When the size of the brick is equal throughout the mass it is a proof that the brick earth has been well prepared and the brick generally well made. A brick, when struck, should give forth a clear, ringing sound. Good brick are generally of a dark reddish brown color, and sometimes they show vitrified spots on the surface, it is not well, however, to depend too much on the last fact, for it is often only an indication of the amount of heat to which the brick has been subjected, while the clay of which the brick is made may be impure and ill prepared.

Bad brick are readily recognized by their reddish yellow color, but still more by the dull sound which they emit when struck , their grain being soft they crumble easily and absorb water with avidity A good brick should not absorb more than one fifteenth of its own weight of water, it should appear and. in reality, be dry. A brick that does not take up any water at all is too much burnt, the mortar adheres in it imperfectly, but is a good conductor of heat. Such brick may be used in damp soil and for pavements. When a brick left in water, either scales or swells, it is of bad quality and contains caustic lime A brick which being made red hot, and then having water poured on it, does not crack, is of extraordinary and rare quality, and those which have borne the effect of moisture and dryness during two or three winters without scat ng or cracking, are excellent

In order to try if brick will bear the effect of frost, let one be boded for half an hour in a solution of sulphate of soda saturated cod, and then suspended by a string over the vessel in which it has been boiled. In twenty-four hours Inc surface of the brick will be covered with small crystals, the brick is then to be immersed again in solution until the crystals disappear, and again suspended; repeating this operation for five days, the crystals reforming after each immersion. If after ibis treatment a number of particles of the brick are found at the bottom of the vessel containing the solution, the brick are incapable of withstanding the effects of frost.



<article title="Imported vs. American Cements" author="Boxall, Richard C.">IMPORTED VS. AMERICAN CEMENTS.

SACKVILLE, N. B., August 25th, 1892.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

SIR,—I sincerely trust that the Government will not impose a higher duty on imported English cement ; at present it is protected by a duty of 40 cents per barrel, The statement published by you of the failure and deterioration by age of Portland cement is not in accord with my 40 years experience. I have the statement of a very reliable firm of cement manufacturers, that buildings erected with their cement have been subjected to great wear and tear for more than 80 years and are stilt intact. The cement manufactured by this firm was used in the following lighthouses (as a rule a lighthouse is more exposed to the action of the sea and atmosphere than perhaps any other class of work) The new <building>Eddystone, Bishop's Rock, Walling Island</building>, <building>The Sombrero, St. Catherines</building>, <building>The Minicoy (China</building>), <building>Dondra Head</building>, <building>The Welmaduwa, Ceylon</building>, and no complaints of the failure of the cement have ever reached the manufacturer.

I have had American cement signally fail, putting me to great expense and inconvenience. I certainly will not try it again, at the bead of the Bay of Fundy at least.

Yours truly,

<person>RICHARD C. BOXALL</person>, C. E.

