<doctype type="text">

January, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER                                                                     13 



what like Fig. 2, owing to the dry plate being out of upright. By having a swing back, the dry plate can be placed in an upright position, thus ensuring vertical parallel lines. This is a very important item. The rising front is a moveable board at front of camera, and on which the lens is mounted—this is useful for cutting off any excess of foreground; a photo of a building with the roof line at top of picture, and about one-third up all foreground, gives a very unsatisfactory impression (see Fig. 3).



















































FIG. 3.

Next to the camera comes the lens. Lenses can be divided into two classes, the single and the compound. The single lens is formed of either one disc of glass, or else two in optical contact. The compound lenses are formed of a series of two or three lenses fixed slightly apart in the one mount. The single class of lens is by far the cheapest, and for pure landscape work is all that can be desired, but for architectural subjects it causes a slight curving to all straight lines, especially those near the margins of a photo. The compound lenses of the rectilinear form are perfection for architectural subjects, but are rather expensive in comparison with the single class. I myself have always used single lenses, and find that the slight curvature given to some lines is hardly noticeable.

The focus of a lens, that is the distance of the lens from the focussing screen, varies according to whether the lens is a short focus or wide angle, a



















































Fig. 4.

medium focus, for a long focus or narrow angle. In a confined situation a wide angle lens is necessary to embrace the whole subject. A medium focus is useful for general subjects, and is the lens usually supplied with camera. A long focus lens is useful for distant shots. As an example of the special advantage of a long focus lens I have made these rough sketches of an imaginary bridge, the only point of view being the opposite side of a river. Fig. 4 would be the probable result with a wide angle lens, Fig. 5 with a narrow angle or long focus, and the medium focus would come about half way between. Lenses are provided with stops for increasing the detail























































n the resulting photo; the smaller the aperture of stop the sharper the detail; and just here I might mention that as far as the lens is concerned, the length of exposure depends upon the size of the stop; the larger the stop, he more light passes through and the shorter is the required exposure. The amount of light passing through different size stops varies directly as

the area c/each stop. For example I will take two stops an 1/2" (Fig. 6), and an 1/8" (Fig. 7). Now as the area of one circle is to another as the squares of their diameters, by finding the areas you get the proportionate exposure. And as a circle 1/8" diam. is 1/16 the area of one 1/2" diam., Fig. 7 stop will require 16 times the exposure of Fig. 6, because only 1/16 the amount Or

























FIG. 7.

intensity of light will pass through. So when you have by experiment found out the time of exposure for one stop, you can easily arrive at all the others. Stops are of three makes: 1st, "the diaphragm," which is inserted in a slit in top of lens mount, and objectionable because they are loose and liable to be lost; 2nd, "the revolving,' which is attached to lens mount; and 3rd, "the Iris," also attached, and by which any size stop desired can be formed. Besides the aperture of stop, the time of exposure depends upon two other factors, the quality of the light and also the rapidity of the dry plate.

For instantaneous work, that is when a shutter is used, it is necessary first to have a bright day, second, an open view with few dark shadows, and third, the largest stop of lens should be used and should be in diameter not less than 1/10 the focus of the lens—that is, if the distance from lens to plate is 5 inches, the stop should be at least 1/2" diameter. As for shutters, I will not touch on them now; their name is legion, they are all sorts, sizes and prices, and 1 should not advise a beginner to get one to start off on, as instantaneous shots are much more difficult to develop than ordinary time exposures, because they require rapid, or very sensitive dry plates, and the quicker the plate the more care and experience is required in development.

The next part is the tripod. This should be strong, light, and rigid when set up, should have sharp points at foot to grip a floor with, and should be easily and quickly set up and down, and make a neat and compact affair when folded up. All such inventions as walking stick tripods and folding tripods, warranted to go in vest pocket, are to be avoided; get something that can stand a gust of wind, which the beforementioned contrivances assuredly cannot do.

The dry plate holders are of two kinds — the "book holder," so called because it opens like a book; and the solid, both of which you can see

to-night; the solid is the best kind, being the most convenient. It is very necessary that they should be well made and thoroughly light tight; and even then it is best not to expose them more than necessary to direct sunlight. It is best to have three slides; each slide holds two plates, which are placed back to back, and have a thin sheet of opaque card between them to prevent exposure having effect on the back plate.

The prepared glass plates on which the image is taken are called dry plates, to distinguish from the old style of wet plate used in the early days of photography. In those days it was necessary when taking views, for the photographer to take a kit with him comprising a fully equipped dark room, with chemicals complete, right on the ground where the view was; he had to prepare and sensitize his glass plate right on the spot, and make the exposure and develop the negative while the plate was still wet, and as this had to be done in all weathers, you will recognize what a "snap" the modern amateur photographer has, especially with his aggressive little hand camera loaded for a dozen or more shots at all the out-of-the-way and novel bits his restless optic seizes on.

The dry plates are coated on one side with a mixture called "the emulsion," and composed chiefly of gelatine and nitrate of silver the sensitiveness of plate is due to the nitrate of silver, the gelatine being chiefly a vehicle to carry the silver salt.

Dry plates are made of different degrees of sensitiveness or rapidity, the rapid being used as I have mentioned, for instantaneous work. It is decidedly best for beginners to work at first on slow plates, as there is a greater amount of latitude; the exposure and development has not to be brought down to the fine point that the rapid ones require.

Although the manufacture and subsequent working with dry plates is so well understood, it is a curious and remarkable fact that the true chemical effect the action of the light has on the dry plate has not yet been discovered.

The remaining necessity for exposure is a focussing cloth to throw over head and camera, so that image on ground glass can be seen while focussing. The best article is of rubber cloth, which would also come in handy for covering camera in case of a shower of rain.

I now come to the second head, viz. Development. For development, you will require scales and weights, chemicals, a glass graduated measure, two stoppered bottles, two trays, a dark room with red lamp, and plenty of dean water. Before lighting the red lamp, solutions of the necessary chemicals must be prepared. These are pyrogallic acid and an alkali—generally carbonate of soda—and cold solutions of these are poured into the glass bottles. The pyrogallic acid is the developer proper, but if used by itself would be tediously slow, therefore an alkali is used to quicken the appearance of the image, and this alkali is called the "accelerator." You will also require to prepare a solution of hyposulphite of soda, which can be at once poured into one of the trays.

You now light the red lamp and see that no stray rays of white light find their way into dark room. On taking dry plate out of plate holder, it will be found on examination to have the same appearance as it had when placed in holder before exposure; no trace of image can be seen. The plate is laid in tray, gelatine side up, and a small quantity of the two solutions is then mixed, just enough to cover plate, and is poured evenly over. The tray is gently rocked and the image begins gradually to appear, the sky or any other high lights showing at first as dark patches. Development is finished when image begins to show through to back of plate, which must be watched. The plate is then rinsed in water to wash off the developer and is then laid in fixing solution. Up to this part the plate, although showing every detail of picture, has retained its semi-opaque creamy appearance, but on placing in fixing bath this is dissolved out in about ten minutes, leaving the negative perfectly clear and transparent in the shadows, and when it is so fixed it must be taken out and given a good washing in cold water. The plate after washing is then laid to drain and dry, and when perfectly dry your negative is complete. The development of a plate is by far the most fascinating part of photography, and the charm of watching a picture full of rich detail, slowly appear on the surface is quite sufficient to account for the enthusiasm that all amateur photographers feel for this, their hobby.

The third heading is the Printing. For this you will require a printing frame, sensitive paper and chemicals. The negative is placed in frame, film

