<doctype type="text">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS - PROCEEDINGS OF THE ANNUAL CONVENTION.

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS - PROCEEDINGS OF THE ANNUAL CONVENTION " author="">



The Quebec Association of Architects met in annual convention in the Parliament buildings, Quebec, at 10 a.m. on Sept. 28th ult. There were present



Victor Roy, President ; J. Nelson, First Vice President; H. Staveley, Second Vice President; J. Z. Resther, Treasurer; A.



C.	Hutchison, Secretary; A. T. Taylor, J. L. Peachy, J. B. Resther, Theo. Daoust, H. Nelson, F. X. Berlinguet, Chas. Baillairge, George Emile Tanguay, A. Gendron, J. Redmond and

J.	Bertrand.

In a brief address the President called the convention to order. Reports of the Treasurer and Auditors were received and adopted; also the report of the Council, which was as follows

REPORT OF COUNCIL.



The Council beg to report that since the last annual meeting of the Association held in Montreal, fourteen meetings of Council have been held, the business at which was principally of a routine character.

The attendance at these meetings was as follows:	-- Alex. C. Hutchison,

14; J. Haynes. 12 A. T. Taylor. 11; J. Nelson, 9; A. F. Dunlop, 8; J.

Z.	Resther, 8; V. Roy, 8; J. P. Ouellet, 1; J. J. Browne, 1; H. Staveley, 0;

H.	M. Perrault, o.

The small attendance of Messrs. Staveley and Ouellet, of Quebec, is accounted for by an understanding that to save expense they were only to be summoned when the business was urgent and that the late Mr. Brown, owing to an accident which happened to him early in the year was incapacitated from attending.

At the first meeting of Council held after the annual meeting, Messrs. F.

X.	Berlinguet and C. Baillairge, of Quebec. and Messrs. A. T. Taylor. Joseph Haines and Alex. C. Hutchison, of Montreal, were appointed a Board of Examiners. This Board reported that at the semi-annual examinations held in Quebec on the 26th and 27th of January last three candidates, namely, Messrs. J. P. Ouellet and J. P. E. Dussault. of Quebec, and Mr. D. A. Monette, of Montreal, had presented themselves and succeeded in passing the final examinations prescribed by the Act of Incorporation and by-laws. Their names were consequently entered upon the register of the Association.

The Board also reported that at the semi-annual examinations held in Montreal on the 27th and 28th of July six candidates had presented themselves for matriculation examination, and that the following four had succeeded in passing, namely: — M. Helbronner, P. Sicotte, F. Peden and J. A. Deschamps.

Shortly after the last annual meeting, the Council, with a view to bring the members of the Association resident in Montreal together more frequently, arranged that as many of the members as could make it convenient to attend should meet and dine together once a month -- these monthly dinners to he followed by a general meeting of the members for the reading of papers, lectures and discussions on subjects of interest to the profession. These monthly dinners and meetings were held from December to May ; at the meetings papers were read and lectures delivered as follows: "Truth in Art," A. T. Taylor; "Westminster Abbey," A. T. Taylor; "Archaeology." J. Venue; two lectures on " French and English Gothic Architecture," illustrated by lime light, by A. C. Hutchison. At one of the meetings a discussion led by Mr. W. E. Doran took place on the Single Tax question. While the attendance at these meetings was not as good as the Council expected, they hope that if they are continued during the next winter season the members will avail themselves of the opportunity thus afforded them for social intercourse and instruction.

An attempt was made in January last to form classes for the instruction of students, but owing to the difficulty of obtaining instructors and the apathy of students, they were not carried out.

During the last session of the Legislature of Quebec, a bill was introduced by Mr. Auge respecting the privileges of labourers, mechanics, contractors

and furnishers of materials. As the provisions of this bill if passed were likely to interfere with and hamper the obtaining of loans for the purpose of building, and would foster the growth of an inferior and irresponsible class of contractors, the Premier of the Government was communicated with and he was requested to use his influence in preventing the passing of the hill. The Council were assured that when the bill came up for discussion their objections to it would be presented. The bill, however, was withdrawn before discussion upon it took place.

In the month of January printed lists of the names of members on the Register of the Association at the beginning of the year were issued to alt the members.

Shortly after coming into office of the present government of the Province of Quebec their attention was called to the tariff of professional charges which hart been prepared in accordance with the terms of the Act of Incorporation. and submitted to their predecessors for confirmation by the Lieutenant-Governor in Council. As this had not been done when they left office, the present Government shortly after they had assumed office was petitioned to have the tariff confirmed at an early date, and on the 24th of March last a deputation of seventeen members of the Association waned upon the Honorable Mr. Taillon, Premier, and urged the claims of the Association to have the tariff ratified. Though the deputation was well received and promised that the subject would have his early and careful consideration it still remains in abeyance and has not yet been rejected.

As a number of the members of the Association wished to have a copy of the tariff as prepared by the Council and submitted for approval to the Government, it was printed in French and English and distributed to all the members of the Association. At the same time circulars were issued containing suggestions for the conduct of competitions. The Council would respectfully urge upon the members to use their influence with any person or body promoting a competition to have it carried out in the manner suggested by the Council.

Early in the year the formation of a library of reference for members and students was taken into consideration. As a library placed in Montreal could only be of use to the members and students resident there, it was felt that it would be unfair to the members of the Association not resident in Montreal to devote any of the funds of the Association to such an object. Subscriptions in books and money were therefore solicited from members in Montreal, and in response to the appeal the sum of $120.00 was described as follows — V. Roy, $25.00: A. T. Taylor, $25.00; Alex. C.

Hutchison, $25.00; A. Raza, $25.00; W. E. Doran, $10.00; J. Wright.

......20

...of books were also received from C. Clift, J. Nelsen, A. F. ...Taylor, C. St. Jean, J. Haynes, Mrs. J. Redpath.

With the money and books thus subscribed and with those previously donated by Mr. C. Baillairge, of Quebec, the Council have now 107 volumes upon the shelves of the library, and as they still have an unexpended balance on hand, the number of books will shortly be increased and the nucleus of a good library of reference established.

The preparation of a suitable design for a diploma to be issued to the members who enter the Association by passing the examinations prescribed by the Act of Incorporation and By-laws has received the attention of the Council and they arc pleased to report that after considerable delays the diplomas are now ready, and that they are being issued to the members entitled to receive them,

Your Council regret to report in August last the death of one of its members, Mr. John James Browne. The following resolution of condolence was adopted by the Council and a copy of the same transmitted to his widow and family: -That the Council put on record their deep regret at the loss by death of

their confrere, Mr. John James Browne, whose name has been identified with the growth of the City of Montreal during the last thirty years. and whose vigor and energy gave promise of many years of usefulness to come. His untimely death is mourned by all his professional brethren. 'The Council would also express their sympathy with the widow and family in their great loss.'

In view of the short time between the decease of Mr. Browne and the annual meeting the Council did not consider it necessary to fill his place in the Council by the appointment of another member.

The Secretary's statement of receipts and the Treasurer's report are herewith submitted. The whole of which is respectfully submitted.

The Treasurer's statement shows a balance on hand of $139.16. 

ALEX. C. HUTCHISON, Secretary.



The following officers were elected for 1893-4:	J. Nelson,

President; Chas. Baillairge, First Vice-President ; A. C. Hutchison, Second Vice-President; J. Z. Resther, Treasurer; Joseph

Haines, Secretary Members of the Council— A. T. Taylor,

A.	Gendron, J. B. Bertrand, Eric Mann, J. Venne, George Emile

Tanguay; Auditors — Theo. Daoust and J. F. Peachy.



A large and richly framed photograph of the original members of Quebec, was presented to the Montreal members, who tendered them a hearty vote of thanks.

A number of the visitors were entertained at luncheon by a few of the Quebec members.

At 2 p.m. a second sitting of' the convention took place, when the following paper was read by Mr. A. T. Taylor



BRIEF NOTES ON THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE WORLD'S FAIR.

<article title=" BRIEF NOTES ON THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE WORLD'S FAIR " author="">

If you wish to realize to the fullest extent the power and potency of contrasts, go to Chicago, and from thence to the World's Fair. You will have shade and light personified. To pass from the noisy, dirty, half paved, half-baked chaotic city of Chicago, to the fair white city on the shores of Lake Michigan, with its lagoons and islands, pleasant winding walks, fountains, statuary and architecture, is like a translation from Purgatory to Paradise.

It is not often the happy lot of any members of our profession to be called upon to design an ideal city. The average modern city is not planned -- like Topsy, it just grows, and we are only allowed to touch with the finger of beauty a spot here and there. One longs for the days of Pericles or Caesar, or even those of the First Empire, when cities were laid out with beauty and effect and were an exquisite settings for noble gems of architecture.

When it was decided to grant Chicago her desire to be the host of the nations, it became incumbent upon her to take steps at once to arrange for the same in a worthy and fitting manner. The experiment was not new, for many previous exhibitions formed precedents for her guidance, but Chicago-like she determined to achieve a success which would at once leave all previous efforts hopelessly in the background. How this has been done remains to be seen. The directors of the Fair were fortunate in securing the services of Messrs. Burnham & Root, architects in Chicago, to formulate a general scheme for arranging the necessary buildings on the flat swamp of Jackson's Park and Mr. Olmsted, of New York, was also called in to prepare a scheme for laying out the grounds. With great wisdom it was decided to obtain the co-operation of the best architectural talent of the United States in designing the various buildings. Accordingly. Mr. Richard Hunt, Mr. G. B. Post, and Messrs. McKim, Mead and White, of New York, Messrs. Peabody and Stearns, of Boston, Messrs. Van Brunt and Howe, of Kansas City, and Messrs. Henry Ives Cobb, S. S. Beman, W. H. B. Jenney, Adler & Sullivan and C. B. Atwood, of Chicago, and one lady, Miss Sophia B. Hayden, were selected for the work.

The general arrangement was mainly drawn up by Mr. Root, whose untimely death has robbed the profession of one of its brightest members. The conception was so grand and dignified that it was accepted with but little alteration, and the various buildings were then all located amongst the above named architects. It was considered advisable to adopt one style for the general exhibition buildings, so as to gain unity and harmoniousness of effect, and yet by bringing to bear upon the problem different minds, a variety and interest was obtained. The style adopted was a liberal phase of classic, ranging from the severe Greek to a florid Renaissance. Two important exceptions, however, were made, viz.: in the Fishery Building, in which a free treatment of Romanesque is adopted, and in the Transportation Building, which is orientally nondescript.

What probably strikes a visitor most of all, is the apparently substantial and permanent look of the buildings, and then follows the inevitable expression of regret that they are so soon to be demolished and fade away like a dream.

