<doctype type="text">	102	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	October, 1893

<article title=" NOTES FROM THE WORLD'S FAIR " author="">

NOTES FROM THE WORLD'S FAIR.

(By a Correspondent.)



What has been written in the American press about the building of the World's Fair would, if taken without a grain of salt, raise expectations after which the Kingdom of Heaven would be disappointing. But one becomes so accustuined to make light of any utterance of the American newspapers and to make due allowance for the conscientious enthusiasm of articles in the illustrated magazines, that, in spite of all that has been said, the Fair was not disappointing. It is in fact a great piece of designing and a triumph for its designers and the nation.

There is nothing in the natural shore to suggest the result obtained. It is an unbroken beach, sandy anti barren. The  arrangement of the ground appropriated to the Fair is a piece of pore design, and to whomever it first occurred to dig out a portion of the grounds and let in the waler of the lake is due the feature which forms the essential beauty of the Fair and its essential advantage in beauty over other Expositions. The rest is perhaps no invention. Neither the idea of abandoning the old form of Exhibition building in iron and glass nor the material used in making other forms was new. But the completeness with which the scheme has been carried out makes this Exposition a new departure in Exposition building.

The "staff" with which the buildings are covered, a compound, chiefly of plaster of Paris and cement united with fibre, which was invented for the last Paris Exposition, has when set an appearance very like the white stone of which the chateaux of the Loire Valley are built, it is applied to a construction of iron and wood arid the result is a building apparently made of stone. As to the buildings themselves, to read some writers on the subject one would think there never were such buildings, that now for the first and only time the world has seen perfect buildings. This is not precisely true but for total effect the "White City" has been an opportunity in design which the world can seldom offer and of which the associated architects, acting in concert with a great landscape gardener, have taken good advantage. Partly by virtue of size, for the porticos of the Manufacturers' Building are 122 feet high and yet (10 not appear unduly large; partly by virtue of uniformity of colour and harmony of style; partly by dint of profusion of architectural features, such as domes, towers, pinnacles, colonnades and statuary, but chiefly by skillful disposition of the buildings and by the introduction of the final charm of water with its accompaniments of bridges, balustraded terraces, broad flights of white steps for landing in some parts and the dark contrast of overhanging trees, all planted, in others, the enlivenment of passing boats and of water fowl which swim about and break the water into many colours; the buildings as a whole form a piece of architectural landscape which realize Turner's pictures of Carthage and Ancient Italy. The architects have for once found themselves to some extent in the position of poets who, as Bacon says, may build for beauty only, as they build with small cost. I do not however, think, that any one can argue from these buildings a case for sham for they cannot be called shams, being so obviously and openly ephemeral. The well regulated mind, which would loathe a sham in permanent work, can derive straightforward pleasure from these buildings and rather prefers in the case of a summer's show to know that the cost is not absurd Moreover, part of the offensiveness of sham is the facility it affords for representing noble material in a base situation. The soul recoils from a marble front to a corner grocery store. But here no magnificence is out of place, provided it does not cost too much. So far from revolting from an impossible magnificence the imagination claims it as due from the material used, and resents instead a compassable severity which would really simulate stone. It is at any rate true I think that the less satisfactory buildings fail in the direction of the commonplace and matter (If fact. The designers who have succeeded best have been those who have used to the greatest extent the freedom given by the material for a lavish use of columns, statuary and plastic decoration.

At one end of the Fair grounds apart from the Exhibition buildtogs are the States buildings, which represent the States and countries taking part in the Exposition, and contain the official apartments of their commissioners. On the whole it must be said that with the exception of some of the foreign buildings

 form a sorry exhibition of designing, and one of the very

worst is that representing Canada. Its triviality of design and barren ugliness were more tiring than ten hours in the picture gallery. Many of the States were led astray by their originality, but not so the Canadian designer his originality was well in hand. Others thought inure (If displaying native material than of perfection of design. The Canadian designer displayed nothing bitt native ugliness. Among States' buildings of the United States the best are those which reproduce old examples. Massachusetts excels with a reproduction of the truly refined and beautiful John Hancock house. California has reproduced a Spanish Jesuit mission building, a large building which is used also for ati exhibit front the State. New York, it was originally understood, intended to reproduce the Van Rensselaer Mansion on the Hudson opposite Albany. But New York has turned its back on the Dutch and proclaims itself in a present day fashion by a gorgeous Renaissance Club House, extravagantly finished, thickly carpeted and hung as to the walls with tapestry or silk. The stairs are of stone on concrete, with a marble dado, if I recollect rightly, and the economically minded visitor only breathes again ott discovering that the handrail is of wood painted to imitate marble. All this for one summer's use is of course sinful. We may congratulate ourselves that the Dominion Government possesses more of the domestic virtue of thrift and that we are spared the pain of regret that the Canadian building must be pulled down. The English Government more Anglicano, have built their house solid and presented it to the Park Commissioners to serve some purpose in Jackson Park, after the Fair is over. And this, I believe, will be the only relic on the grounds left of the whole display.

It is hoped that copies of some of the fine groups (If statuary will find their way into museums. But some (If the best are colossal and others would lack their architectural and landscape setting.

For the buildings there is no further use; and, even if left, they would soon shed their beauty to the ground and stand as bare as trees in the autumn.

One wonders whether there will again be so great an Exposition. It is understood that the promoters of this Exposition will drop nearly half as much again as the entire cost of the Centennial Exposition, and what people can stand such an outlay?

However, there will be Expositions, and if the designers of the next will learn positive lessons front this as well as caution, may I be there to see.

<article title=" TORONTO ART STUDENTS' LEAGUE " author="">

TORONTO ART STUDENTS' LEAGUE.

The Tot-onto Art Students' League has resumed its regular meetings. Preliminary arrangements are already under way for what promises in January next to be the most interesting exhibit of the work of the members of the League that has ever been submitted to the public view.

<article title=" RECENT PLUMBING PRACTICE " author="">

RECENT PLUMBING PRACTICE.

MR. Glenn Brown, F. A. I. A., who read a paper on the above subject at the recent International Congress of Architects, at Chicago, summed tip the deductions to be drawn from all the experiments reviewed by him as follows

1. That unventilated traps are liable to fail from either or both siphonage or back pressure.

2. That small traps should have vents the size of the trap, and the main vertical vent should be three inches in diameter in ordinary dwelling houses, and should be computed for larger houses.

3. Ventilated traps do not fail by either back-pressure or siphonage.

4. That ventilation through pipes of the proper size should be required in all specifications.

In the matter of methods of testing pipe-systems, the smoke and the peppermint test are of little service, as they do not represent any pressure. Filling the pipes with water or testing them with compressed air, the pressure showing on a gauge, are the only reliable methods.



Steam for heating purposes says the Plumber and Decorator, possesses an advantage over hot water in the case of its application where great inequalities and frequent alterations of level occur, and particularly when the boiler must be placed higher than the place to be heated. For buildings occupied at intervals steam is more effective than hot water in its rapid generation of heat.

