	<doctype type="text">130	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	December, 1893

<article title=" UNIFORM FORM OF PROPOSAL " author="">

UNIFORM FORM OF PROPOSAL.

As the result of joint deliberation on the part of a Committee of the Builders' and Traders' Exchange of Milwaukee, and the Architects of that city, the use in future of the following uniform form of proposal is recommended

	Milwaukee Wis	189

 NOTICE 

	is given upon the FOLLOWING	express conditions VIZ



t.	All bids are to be made known upon the awarding of contract or within five (5) days of the opening of the bids.

2.	It is expressly agreed by the bidder that he will make contract for the price named within ten (10) days from the specified time set for receiving bids.

3.	Where the owner or agent demands a bond from the contractor, the contractor shall be entitled to a bond from the owner or agent for the prompt payment of the sums named in the contract, and for the faithful performance of such other conditions and terms as may be set forth in said contract.

4.	The contractor shall be entitled to 5 per cent. on all materials furnished by the architect, owner or agent upon which materials the undersigned has bid and contracted for.

	To	Architects

The undersigned] propose to furnish all the material and to

perform all the labor required for the	work

of a	to be built for Air	in

accordance with the plans and specifications for the sum of

                                Dollars ($    

                                Dollars ($    

                                Dollars ($    Remarks                                       







Name                         

Address                

USEFUL HINTS <article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

A yellowish-brown luminous paint is obtained from 48 parts and pigment and 34 pairs luminous calcium sulfide.

One-fifth more siding and flooring in needed than the number of square feet of surface to be covered, because of the lap in the siding and machinery.

The ends of all timbers, and especially of large beams should bc free (for it is through the ends that moisture chiefly evaporates). They should on no account be embedded in mortar, Beams may appear sound externally and he rotten within, for the outside being in contact with the air, becomes dryer than the interior. It is well, therefore, to saw and reverse all large scantling, <article title=" PLASTER USED FOR FLOORING " author="">

PLASTER USED FOR FLOORING—it is stated by an exchange that French builders, who have carried the art (If hardening plaster to where it is used for flooring, either in place of wood or tile, employ for this purpose six parts of good quality of plaster intimately mixed with one part of freshly slacked white lime finely sifted. The mixture as thus composed is laid down in as quick time as possible care being taken that the trowel is not used upon the surface for too long a time; after this the floor is allowed to become very dry, and is subsequently saturated in the most thorough manner with sulfate of iron or zinc, the iron giving the strongest surface, its resistance to breaking being found to be 20 times the strength of ordinary plaster. it appears that with sulfate of zinc the floors remain white, while when iron is used it becomes the color of rusted iron but if linseed oil, boiled with litharge, he applied to the surface, it becomes of an attractive mahogany color, this being especially the case if a coat of copal varnish is added

To test the purity of white lead is not a different matter and does not necessitate a knowledge of chemistry. 'the simplest way is to crush a small quantity of dry lead on a sheet of paper, fold it, and holding it over a plate or saucer, set fire to it. The heat will change the white lead, if pure into metallic lead, which will drop in the form of shining grains; if it is adulterated, no indications of metal will be apparent. Another method is to spread a thick layer of the lead over a very thin pine board. On burning it, the metallic particles will be visible only when the lead is pure. A more accurate method than either is that of using charcoal and blow-pipe. Take a flat piece of charcoal about three inches long, one inch wide, and one-fourth of an inch thick, hollow out a small cavity and see within it a piece of the suspected lead about the size of a pea Then take a blow- pipe and a spirit lamp, amid direct the flame on the lead ; keep up a continual and steady blowing, and allow the blue part of the flame to reach the earl. In a couple of minutes the lead, if pure will be reduced to a small shining piece of pure metallic lead ; if it lie adulterated, no amount of blowing will produce the same result. A tobacco pipe (common clay), having a small stem may, at a pinch, be used as a blowpipe.



The work of rebuilding the St. Johns Stone

Chinaware Companies factory at St. Johns, Que.,

is actively progressing.



At Guelph, during 1893 buildings were erected

to the value of $100,000, and on other improvements there was expended $10,000.



Resin is utilized for making the varnish used

by Venetian blind manufacturers for painting their blinds. This varnish is mixed with the desired color, mostly green, and when painted gives a hard gloss enamel surface.













Room

Mouldings

New goods just opened.



Rich and effective designs specially coloured to match our Wall PAPERS and Ingrains 

also Chair



RAILS	CEILING and



PANEL BEADS COVES, etc., in GOLD and shaded effects, Natural Oaks, etc.



We colour mouldings



to match any paper.













M.	STAUNTON & CO.

6 KING STREET WEST.