

















<doctype type="ad">

<firm>ELLIOTT & SON</firm>

Interior Decorators

Invite all Architects attending the	 Convention February 7th to call at their show rooms, Bay Street, and inspect their extensive collection of designs in the accessory arts of Stained Glass, Relief and Fresco Decorations, Parquet Floors, Wall Papers, etc                    .

ESTABLISHED 1860



Stained Glass



 THIS invaluable feature in house decoration has been of late



somewhat abused in the hands of incompetent designers, but we are glad to notice that Architects and others are demanding more artistic treatment of the materials. It has always been our principle to decline work that on account of its low price could not be properly executed. Our present specimens will be found fully in accord with present styles of design and well worth inspection.

Relief Ornament

We believe we can serve Architects in this direction to a much greater extent than at present. We furnish enrichments for mouldings, architraves, friezes, cornices, mantels, &c., in any design and composed of either hard staff (carton pierre) fibrous plaster, plaster of paris or paper stucco, the material being chosen for its adaptability to the purpose intended. Egg and dart, fillet and bead and leaf ornaments of all kinds and in all sizes of an absolutely hard material to take the place of wood carving where expense has to be avoided or a very elaborate effect is desired.

Wood Floors

For a number of years we have laid parquetry floors made by a prominent American firm which have given great satisfaction. We are now making our own flooring, which we guarantee equally good, and we are able on this account to make a considerable reduction in price. These beautiful floors in oak, mahogany, &c., 1/4 in. thick, can be laid on any floor and are furnished in a number of very effective designs, many of them lower in price than the cost of a good carpet. Prices and designs furnished on application, either for laying and furnishing in any part of the country or for supplying the floor only.







ELLIOTT & SON

	Decorative Art Works	92 to 96 Bay Street, Toronto.