<doctype type="text">

SIR David Macpherson in presenting his collection of palms and plants to the city of Toronto made, in referring to the Palm Garden of Frankfort on the Main, a suggestion as to the manner of housing them. A prominent merchant of the city, who has spent some months near Frankfort, has written to the Mail describing the Palm Garden in terms of enthusiasm and advocating the erection on the same model of a winter garden in Toronto. Sir David Macpherson's collection is evidently the nucleus of what may be made a very good thing. But it is well, in adopting ideas from successful features of European cities, to remember that such features can seldom be transplanted without modification. Continental modes of life are so different from ours that in appropriating ideas we must start from consideration of our own needs as carefully as in originating without a model ; and it will usually be found, where the resulting work is good, that what was at first taken as an example has ended by being only a suggestion.

<article title=" LORD ABERDEEN'S " author="">

LORD ABERDEEN'S request for an addition to Rideau Hall has excited comments from the daily press varying according to the political bias of the paper. One paper is for leaving Rideau Hall as it is and forcing our Governor-Generals to conform their manner of living to the ideas of our farmers who, the leader writer asserts, are coming to the front in public affairs and will be found on the side of a policy of "democratic simplicity." Another paper is for pulling down Rideau Hall and replacing it by a "respectable looking mansion." It is, as it has turned out, a pity that this course was not adopted at first, for, according to the figures quoted, Rideau Hall, which cost $82,000 to purchase, has cost $53,000 for repairs and alterations. Whether the need of fifteen thousand dollars worth of more room is sufficient provocation to pull down what has been done and build the respectable

looking mansion now, is a question. It would not be an exact response to the request of the Earl, who has not asked for a new mansion bye and bye, but for a few more rooms now. It hardly seems likely that the old Hall with its additions will be pulled down before it has had a life reasonably proportioned to the money which has been spent upon it. When the time does come for it to be replaced it is to be hoped that some steps will be taken to have the work well designed. It is not the class of building that is likely to be well handled by the Public Works Department. The forte of the Chief Architect's office is in its organization for the multiplication of buildings of a similar class An order for such an unprecedented and (unless the farmer forbids) elaborate piece of work as a new residence for the Governor-General would sweep the office like a cyclone. The pavilion representing Canada at the World's Fair has already proved too much for the elasticity of the departmental designer. If a new residence for the Governor-General should get into the hands which produced that work, it is impossible to avoid the conviction that however capacious the mansion might be it would not be "respectable looking."



THE by-law appointed by the City Council of Toronto some four years ago, making compulsory the inspection by the city officials of all plumbing and drainage work, as well as alterations in existing work done in the municipality, is unquestionably one of the most valuable pieces of civic legislation that has marked the history of the city. Previous to the passing of this by-law, the plumbing and drainage work throughout the city, even in the most expensive residences, was often done in a disgraceful manner, and in such a way as to prove injurious to the health of the occupants of the house. It was not unusual for drains to be laid without joints of any kind being made and in this condition covered up with earth and concrete, the character of the work being subsequently revealed when sickness entered the house. Under the present system, work of this kind is no longer possible; the owner or his architect can demand from those who are to do the work a certificate from the plumbing inspection department that everything has been done in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing by-law, and unless the work has been done in this manner, the department will not issue a certificate, and the owner may refuse payment. Another valuable feature of the by-law is, that plans for the plumbing and drainage work must be filed with the plumbing department, so that in the event of defects developing in the work in the future, the exact location the of pipes is ascertainable.

A great deal of difficulty is often experienced in cases where alterations are required to work done previous to the passing of the by-law, as in such cases much trouble and expense is often necessary to discover the location of the drains. In this connection we wish to point out that greater care should be exercised in the plumbing department for the protection of the plans which are there filled, and the value of which we have already referred to. These plans are at present kept in pigeon holes in an ordinary wooden desk, where, should a fire occur, they would be certain to be destroyed. The plumbing department should lose no time in providing a fire proof receptacle for these plans, otherwise we may expect to hear that the valuable record of plumbing work done in the city for several years past has been irretrievably lost.



IN view of the hundreds of thousands of dollars that have been bequeathed to the engineering department of McGill University, it is a matter of wonder that not a dollar has been given for architectural education. Mr. Baillairge, in his paper read before the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, very truly says that there is a greater need in Canada to-day for instruction in architecture than in engineering. In engineering knowledge and ability Canada already takes front rank, and it is no doubt, partly due to the facilities which have been afforded for obtaining engineering knowledge. This knowledge is undoubtedly important, but cannot be said to be more so than a knowledge of architecture. Architecture, especially in the modern days in which we live, affects so closely the life and happiness of the individual, that its importance cannot easily be overestimated, and in view of this, it is surprising that greater interest has not been manifested by the public in the proper education of architects. The range of knowledge required by the architect of to-day, is greater than that required by the engineer. He should to a large extent have the knowledge of the engineer, and in addition be conversant with the principles of sanitation, design, decoration, etc., of which the engineer needs to know nothing. On the knowledge of our architects depends the appearance of our towns and cities, as well as the comfort and health of the citizens, and a sense of pride, if nothing more should cause our people to assist in every way possible the cause of architectural education. While possibly little can be done for the architects of the present, steps should be taken to place within the reach of Canadian students of architecture in the future thc means of acquiring the needed instruction pertaining to the successful practice of the profession. We trust that the Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec will continue to keep this subject before public notice, and that in the near future some of our wealthy citizens will feel it a privilege to give liberally for this worthy object. Unfortunately, architects themselves as a rule are not possessed of sufficient wealth to give much assistance to this object; were it otherwise, we have no doubt that facilities for the study of architecture would long ago have been provided.

<article title=" OLD UPPER CANADA COLLEGE GROUNDS " author="">

OLD UPPER CANADA COLLEGE GROUNDS.



THE Parks and Gardens Committee of the Toronto City Council is considering a message from the Mayor proposing that the city should acquire the old Upper Canada College grounds "for park and other purposes." The price is the present assessed value of the land. The terms are so easy as to suggest the possibility of securing an open space and ornamental feature for the city with but little burden to ratepayers. It is possible so to lay out the land as to make building sites aggregating in value about the purchase price of the block, and still leave vacant enough land for ornamental open space. To do this will be a benefit to the city greater than the acquisition of the land for park purposes only. A park is after all an interruption in a city, while a square is a higher development of the city itself; and what is needed just now in that part of the city is development. Moreover, the removal of Government House, after some time, is probable; and its grounds are better fitted for park purposes than the grounds of Upper Canada College. They are better adapted to the purpose in form, but particularly by their southerly position. It is the southerly aspect that buildings require, and the Upper Canada College grounds with Government House to the south are a more eligible site for building upon than are the Government House grounds with a park on the Upper Canada College grounds to the north

