<doctype type="text">October, 1893	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	103

<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.

One gallon priming colors covers 50 square yards; white zinc,

30; white lead paint, 45; lead color, 50; black paint, 50; stone

color, 44; yellow paint, 44; blue color, 43; bright emerald, 25;

bronze green, 73.

	To remove rust from nickel plate:	Grease the rust stains with

oil, and after a few clays rub them thoroughly with a cloth moistened with ammonia. If any spots still remain, remove them with diluted hydrochloric acid and polish with tripoli.

It is stated that ordinary brick boiled in tar for about twelve hours, or until they are saturated with it, are increased about 30

per cent in weight, are much harder		than common ones and

unaffected by frosts and acids as well as perfectly waterproof. They form an excellent flooring for work shops or store rooms, particularly in chemical establishments. <article title=" CEMENT FOR MOSAIC CUBES " author="">

CEMENT FOR MOSAIC CUBES. — Soak isinglass in water till soft; then dissolve in proof spirits by means of a gentle heat. In two ounces of this mixture dissolve ten grains of ammoniacum and while still liquid, add half a drachm of mastic dissolved in three drachms of rectified spirits. Stir well together and put in bottles. Melt by standing the bottles in hot water and use directly.

At the Workmen's Exhibition recently held at the Agricultural Hall, London, some interesting examples of wall decoration by means of sand were, shown. A plain coloured surface having been prepared the design is stencilled on with gold size or some other suitable sticky material — varnish allowed to partly dry would answer very well. Sand that has previously been coloured to the desired tints is then applied to the surface marked by the design to which it adheres, giving a very attractive appearance. Sand of several colors may be employed if desired.

SWISS BRICK. — In Switzerland there is now being manufactured a glass brick, or a brown building block, formed or molded flask shape, with a short neck at each end, 8 inches in length, 6 inches in width, and 2 1/2 inches in depth, with an air chamber through the center. The edges of the brick are covered, recessed or ribbed and grooved to receive when laid a suitable cement of plastic material of such character that after it has hardened it will constitute a suitable frame or setting to keep the entire mass, roof or wall solidly together. The forms or molds, there being two shapes, are pleasing to the eye, the line or ridges being clear and smooth, and of sufficient thickness or strength to stand a pressure of 150 to 200 pounds to the square foot.

Experiments with glass bricks for building purposes were he-gun in 1891 by Mr. Falconnier, an architect of Lyons. These bricks are hollow, being blown like ordinary bottles, and are given forms— such as cubes, hexagons, etc.—that permit of ready laying. A bituminous cement, with a base of asphalt, is used; the bricks serve as double windows, giving protection against both cold and beat they are good insulators of humidity and noise, and they lend themselves readily to the decoration of buildings, either by their form or their colour. Many applications are forseen. The bricks are described as neater than marble for meat markets, and are especially adapted for hospitals, bath halls, hot houses, refrigerating establishments, and buildings in which absence of windows would be an advantage. A hot house of glass bricks, we are informed, costs about the same as an ordinary one, saves fuel and resists hail.



Among the processes for fireproofing to which the attention of the directors of the Berlin Exposition was recently drawn, and for which awards have been declared, are the following For light tissues, consisting of sixteen pounds of ammonium sulphates, five pounds ammonium carbonate, four pounds of borax, six pounds boric acid, four pounds of starch—or one pound dextrine or one pound gelatine — and twenty-five gallons water, mixed together, heated to eighty-six degrees Fahrenheit, and the material impregnated with the mixture, centrifugated and dried, and then ironed as usual. One quarter of this mixture, costing only a few cents, is sufficient to impregnate fifteen yards of material. For certain materials, theatrical decorations, wood and furniture, thirty pounds of ammonium chloride are mixed with so much floated chalk as to give the mass consistency, and it is then heated to from 125 degrees to 150 degrees Fahrenheit; two coats of it by means of a brush. A pound of this, costing only a mere trifle, is sufficient to cover five square rods.

<article title=" STEAM-PIPE JOINTS " author="">. — The method of constructing steam-pipe joints at one of the Edison Electric Light Stations in Boston where the working pressure carried is 150 pounds per square inch, designed by William H. Gallison, is said to have given excellent results. The pipe is made of wrought iron, and the joints between contiguous sections of pipe are made by the use of cast-iron flanges. The pipe and flange ate threaded, and the screw joint is first made in the usual way, care being taken that the thread on the pipe is of sufficient length to extend through the flange its full thickness After being made up solid inside of the pipe at the extreme end is expanded by the use of a hammer, the metal being driven or riveted into the thread. The pipe is them put in a lathe, and the flange faced off throughout its whole surface; not only that of the cast-iron of the flange proper, but also that of the end of the pipe. The gasket which is used is made of copper, and care is taken that this extends through to the interior edge of the pipe as well as the surface of the flange.

COATINGS FOR PRESERVING STONE—The following formulae for metallic cements are given by Mr. Grimand in La Revue Practique des Travaux Publics Oxide of zinc dissolved in a solution of chloride has for a long time been used as a paint, and it serves as a base for the following cements: 1. Oxide of zinc, twenty kilogrammes; pulverized Lorraine cement stone, twenty kilogrammes; sandstone, ten kilogrammes. This cement must be tempered by a liquid composed of hydrochloric acid, twenty-two degress, B., ten litres; water, five litres ; zinc white, three kilogrammes; ammonium chloride, 0.5 kilogrammes. 2. A cheaper cement can be obtained by mixing oxide of zinc, ten kilogrammes; pulverized Lorraine cement stone, twenty kilogrammes; sandstone five kilogrammes; and yellow ochre, 04 kilogrammes. This cement is tempered with the solution just given, diluted with five litres of water. For soft stone, a cement is made of oxide of zinc, ten kilogrammes; Lorraine cement stone, thirty kilogrammes; sandstone, ten kilogrammes; and yellow ochre, 0.3 kilogramme. Or the following formula may be used Zinc white, five kilogrammes;



plaster ten kilogrammes; Lorraine cement stone, ten kilogrammes; and yellow ochre, 0.5 kilogramme. If an extremely strong cement is desired, it can be prepared of oxide of zinc, ten kilogrammes; pulverized quartz, fifteen kilogrammes. For the last mentioned three cements, the liquid given above is used, only ten litres of water are added instead of five litres. These cements can be applied with a brush as a paint. Colours give good results. The coating adheres perfectly to the stone, and gives it the appearance of a newly cut surface, and at the same time forms a protecting covering against the inclemency of the weather. The stone should be well cleaned before applying the paint, and, if necessary, several coats may be given.

METHOD OF MEASURING BRID;E ANT) FLOOR VIBRATIONS.

—Professor Steiner, of Prague, has perfected a method of accurately measuring bridge and floor vibrations by the aid of photography. His process, says Le Genie Civil, is a delicate one and is an application of the chrono-photographic process of M. E. J. Marey, of the Institute of France. lie uses little glass balls, and these are strongly illuminated, either by the solar ray or by an electric arc light or a magnesium light. These balls give upon a photographic negative a clear and well defined point. To register vibrations one of these glass balls is fixed at the point to be examined, and the photographic apparatus then so set up that the image of the ball falls on the right edge of the plate. The plate is exposed at the moment the movement commences, and at the same time the camera is turned from right to left on a pivot. The negative then shows an undulating line which is the vibrations of the ball point in amplitude and duration to obtain a scale with which to read this undulating line, a second ball is suspended to a fixed point, to which is given a known rate of oscillation. The position of these two balls is such that their images coincide in a state of rest, and a comparison of the trace of the second ball as printed upon the line of the first on the negative gives the number of vibrations of the latter in a given time. It is possible, then, to place near the first ball a fixed scale, brilliantly illuminated like the ball itself, and as this scale appears on the negative, the amplitude of the oscillations can be measured at a glance. The measurements may be made either directly upon the print or from an enlargement made in the usual manner. To avoid the practical difficulty of making the images of the two balls coincide at the be— ginning of the operation, Professor Steiner says a pendulum may be made to oscillate before the source of illumination of the ball. The ball of the pendulum will pass before the light at regular and determined intervals, and the undulating line of the negative will be broke at distances corresponding to the duration of the oscillation of the pendulum. It is not important that the camera turns upon its axis with a uniform motion, and the speed of turning is likewise of little importance. The relations of the curves placed by the two balls will always remain the same. It is suggested that an apparatus of this kind would be useful in studying the vibration of the floors of buildings resting for some years on iron beams, especially when these floors are submitted to the rythmic shock of dancing.



THE ARTS AND CRAFTS.

This is what Mr. Crane says, in a recent issue of the Magazine of Arts, as to the connection which should exist between Arts and Crafts "The designer—if designer pure and simple he is forced to remain—must never lose touch with the craftsman. It would be well, indeed, if he practiced some craft himself; as the technical conditions, peculiarities, perhaps difficulties, he would be sure to encounter, would tell him more than any words about it; and the practical experience and suggestions gained would certainly react most favorably upon his power to design. Before the evolution of our industrial epoch of suib-division of labour, machine industry, and centralized markets, time craftsman was his own designer. Handicrafts, in fact, did not exist apart from art, and the workshop training and apprenticeship was common to them all. Thus a painter began as a colour grinder, and went through all the technicalities of the studio or workshop before he became master of them. The system is so obviously sensible and sound that it seems strange it should ever have been departed from, and, in fact, it only was (smudge blocked word) up by the pressure of the modern commercial system domination of the money-making idea."

