



<doctype type="text">	

<assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL		CLUB</assoc>

		ORGANIZED 1889 





<article title=" PHOTOGRAPHY FOR ARCHITECTS " author=" Woolnough, J.J. ">.

WE herewith publish a paper on" Photography for Architects," by Mr. <person>J. J. Woolnough</person>, delivered before the Toronto Architectural Club, at its second meeting in November last, together with the introductory remarks of the President, Mr. <person>Alfred H. Gregg</person>. The paper was illustrated by photographs and photographic apparatus, and at the conclusion flash light views of the present were taken. The president in introducing the act spoke as follows:

It was suggested by several members of our Club that we devote one of our evenings to the study of photography. The task then assigned to me, in addition to introducing the speaker of the evening, to dwell on the special advantages derived by an architect from the pursuit of this branch of art. The more scientific details of photography and the ways of working the camera will be taken up by our friend, Mr. Woolnough.

An architect should be not only a lover but a producer of the beautiful, and it should be his endeavor to raise the standard of its education in every way possible. That a camera will give

material assistance in emphasizing all these characteristics, will be the aim of this paper to set forth.

His mechanical instincts soon give him the mastery over the controls, and ere long he sees in the subject an art never before

realized. The picture-making, the arrangement of lights and angles, the perspective, are necessary parts of the photographer's imagination, and as he delights in these he becomes more and more the devotee of art. Failure may follow failure, but perseverance brings reward, and soon he becomes a producer as well as a lover of the beautiful.

Let him walk forth some fine morning, leaving the turmoil of the city behind him. Close to its confines he may find innumerable signs of Nature's art—the noble trees, the hills, the rocks,

alleys with their trickling streams, the pebbly beach, the cold old sea, even the clouds in their billowy beauty—all

images to be reproduced by his trusty lens, and soon by old Sol's trusty aid he becomes possessed of indelible mementos of his stay.	

To others his pictures seem a revelation,

for none but a trained eye detects how much of the beautiful lies all around us. …dearer to an architect's heart are ancient buildings crumbled to decay, with details over which days and weeks have

been spent by skillful hands. Are these to be lost? Nay, rather let's train the rising generation to know and love the works of their ancestors. Truly, pictures are produced for the photographer, whichever way he looks. Take a street scene, for instance, in which some special grouping of figures has attracted his notice. Quickly he chooses the best position for his camera, choosing his picture, with proper amount of foreground and  background, and with accessories well distributed. It is thus

that the photographer becomes the lover and the producer of the beautiful, and it is thus he may educate others to a better

 appreciation

 of their artistic surroundings.

...before deciding on the expenditure of one cent on the re...apparatus an architect would do well to make up his

 mind to two or three things. First, he should decide to do everything, from the exposure of the plate to the final printing,

If He should not permit anyone to "do the rest" at any of his proceedings. Only thus can photography become

 of practical use. Just here let me say, that the uninitiated sel...dream of the pleasure to be found in developing. To take

an old white plate and by the application of a few chemicals to e image gradually developing—if a landscape, to watch the

one tree after another appear; or if some group of friends, to faces rising as if by magic until the perfect result is before

 The exposure is not by any means the most pleasant part of the process. There is then an omnipresent feeling of dread

when something has gone wrong. It is when developing that we

 are

 first able to judge of the actual success we have made.

especially is it of advantage to be able to go through the process yourself, as by doing so one may easily obtain a

 ...print much more quickly than by employing a professional photographer, and that, too, without interfering with your business to any noticeable extent. Another word to would-be-disciples of Daguerre — expect failures at first. With care they

will become less and less frequent till finally they may be reason ably

 certain of success every time.

At the outset of this paper it was attempted in a general way  how advantageous as an artist trainer and art producer

the camera may become. There are some more technical ways in which it will be found of incalculable service. First, for perspective work, in supplying trees, figures, etc., and in obtaining

street views, that correct representation may be given of  ...oring buildings, also in the study of sciography or the

science of shadows. Second, in preparing measured drawings ...sting work. Much labour may thus be saved in counting  ...etc. Third, for use of the clerk of works. Views thus ob… would give correct representations to the architect of the

progress of the work, and certificates could then be granted.

Fourth and last, the collection of a series of photographs of his own designs and details, and of any architectural views which may be of interest to him.

To an Englishman, our Canadian climate seems an ideal one for a photographer. The clear atmosphere lasting from January to December should surely not be wasted.

But after all, there is another question which may be asked— can we afford it? I answer by asking — can we put our money to better use? Here we are, a gathering of architects and students, with wealth staring us in the face. Are we misers with hearts of stone and blood turned to ice, that we endure accumulating burdens of useless hoarded gold? Surely not! Let us be up and doing, let us rather meet the danger manfully, courageously, and, I may add, efficaciously, by throwing off these needless weights, by casting aside the carking care of a Croesus for the glad, though perchance penurious, life of an amateur photographer. This may seem like levity, but seriously, be our savings great or small, we may with the initial expenditure of from ten to fifteen dollars, become possessed of a camera amply sufficient for all our needs. Our developing and printing outfits will cost but little more. All that is required will be two or three trays, a pair of scales, a ruby lantern—easily home-made—and a few chemicals, all of them cheap. For a dark room, the modem bath-room admirably fulfils all necessary conditions.

What more can I say to inspire you? Certainly nothing I can think of at present—for I would fain see every office equipped with this useful instrument. We are here to consider every means, great and small, for the advancement of architecture in our country, and if we can force the sunbeams to do more work for us, let us by no means miss the opportunity.

ALFRED H. GREGG.



MR. Woolnough was then called upon and read the following paper:

GENTLEMEN, — Before plunging into a description of photography, and how it is done, I should like to emphasize that part of our worthy president's paper, dealing with its practical use to architects. I myself have found photographs of old buildings very useful as an aid to memory, in preparing measured drawings. Furthermore, it must not be forgotten, that photography is not only one of the most fascinating and absorbing of hobbies, but that it requires for its successful working, those supremely useful qualities of patience, care, order, precision, close observation and thoughtfulness, which are, I believe, specially required by all architects who wish to ensure a successful career.

The production of a finished photograph can be divided into three beads:

1st, Exposure; 2nd, Development; 3rd, Printing.

Commencing at No. 1, The Exposure, you will require a camera, with lens, tripod and plate holder, also a focussing cloth, and lastly, the dry plates. The majority of cameras on the market are sold complete with lens tripod and plate holder. I will now unpack my set and explain the use of each part.

On being the happy possessor of a complete set, of course there is an uncontrollable desire to set forth and immortalize some dainty bit of scenery, but it will be first necessary to fill the plate holder with two plates, and as the plates are extremely sensitive to ordinary light. this has to be done in a dark room, by the light of a red lamp —red and orange light having (within certain limits) no effect on the plates. On unpacking plates and placing in holders, you will notice that the plates are sheets of glass, coated on one side with the sensitizing compound.

Going back to the camera, I will now take up and describe each part. Taking

		the camera first, it is absolutely necessary

		that it is light tight, with no pinholes in

		the bellows, and also its base should fix

	FIG 1.	firmly and rigidly on top of tripod, so as

		to prevent all vibration. The bellows

should be long enough to extend far along focus lens, and the base board should be of a length so as not to interfere with the use of a short focus lens (see Fig. 1). The focussing screw should be within easy reach, the front of camera being a very awkward position for it. Of more importance for architectural subjects are the facts that a camera must possess a swing back; a

























































rising front is also very useful. The necessity of a swing back comes in when photographing a tall building in a confined space, when it will be found

necessary to point the lens	the subject.

With a fixed back to camera...

