	<doctype type="text">124	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER DECEMBER 1893

<article title=" OTTAWA " author="">

OTTAWA



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

Attention is again being directed by the repairs now being made to the Geological Museum in this city, to the need of a new building which should he better adapted for the purpose. Efforts have been made on more than one occasion by the Royal Society as well as the civic authorities to induce the government to undertake the erection of a new building, hot the great cost of a fire-proof structure such as would be required has deterred the government from moving in the matter. It is much to be regretted that the proposal made soon after the death of Sir John Macdonald to erect a building as a memorial to his memory and to serve as a National Museum and Art Gallery, was not carried into execution



The new R. C. church of St. Joseph, an illustration of which appeared in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for October, was dedicated a fort. night ago. The building, which stands on the corner of Wilbrod and Cumberland streets, is constructed of stone, in the Romanesque style, and is surmounted by a lofty octagonal tower. The exterior, with the exception of the main entrances, which show some elaborate stone carving, is devoid of ornamentation. The interior, on the contrary is must elaborately decorated, as is the rule in Roman Catholic Church edifices. The cost of the building was in the neighborhood of $70,000. Mr. W. E. Doran, of Montreal, was the architect.

<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

MONTREAL



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The statues of Wolfe and Montcalm designed by Hebert for the facade of the Parliament Buildings at Quebec, will shortly he placed in position.

Prof. Harry Hamford, M. S. C., late of Victoria University, Manchester, England, has received the appointment of lecturer in the Engineering Department of McGill University, Montreal.

The sum of $11,391.69 has been received and an almost equal animount disbursed by the treasurer of the Maissoneuve Monument to he erected in this city. The work of canvassing for the additional $15,000 required is to he at once proceeded with. Mr. Herbert is the sculptor.

St. George Anglican church on St. Joseph street, is about to celebrate its Jublice It is proposed to mark the occasion by the erection (If a tower and additions necessary to complete the building at a cost of some $16,000. The church, which occupies a commanding position, is a good example of Gothic architecture. It was the third Anglican church erected in Montreal, the corner stone having been laid by Bishop Mountain on the 8th July, 1842.

In reply to an enquiry, the Hon. Mr. Nantel, Minister of Public Works, staled in the Quebec Legislature recently, that the total amount expended on the enlargement of the Montreal Court House, since 1887, was $649,946.25. This does not include a heavy bill for extras for which the contractor has brought suit. The opinion prevails that the work has been far more profitable for a few individuals than for the people who will have to provide the funds to meet the cost.

The first monthly meeting and dinner of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was held on November 25th. The dinner took place at the City Club and was followed by a meeting in the Association rooms. Mr. A. C. Hutchinson gave a lecture illustrated with lime-light views, on the Architecture of the World's lair. There was a good attendance of members and students. The second dinner and meeting will take place on Thursday, tile 14th inst., when there will he a discussion on the advisability of admitting honorary members and on other subjects of interest to the Association. The students ore invited to attend.

Your remarks concerning the necessity for ample provision being made by architects in their calculations for the increasing wind presets to which apparently buildings in this country are to he subjected, prompts me to remark that in this locality at least, it would seem wise on the part of architects, in the light of recent experience, to make provision against earthquakes also. Solidity is a characteristic of most of our buildings, and to this no doubt is due the fact that so little damage resulted from the recent earth disturbances in this city. lit the general alarm which seized upon all classes of our citizens this fact appears to have been overlooked, for there was an effort on the part of everybody to get into the open air.



The new addition, recently completed, to the Art Museum was formally opened by His Excellency, the governor-general, a fortnight ago. The new building is designed to afford improved class rooms and an additional gallery for exhibition purposes. The Art Association of Montreal was organized in 1879, art classes being formed shortly afterwards. Besides the annual exhibitions there have been held sixteen loan exhibitions. There has also been accumulated a valuable permanent collection of paintings, the nucleus for which was donated by the late Mr. J. Tempest. In connection with the opening ceremony, the hope was expressed that something would be done for the development of art in conjunction with industrial education, in order that the knowledge of art might be employed for the purpose of beautifying manufactures. Mr. A. T. Taylor was the architect of the new building.

An interesting test was recently made at McGill University of the strength of a beam of British Columbia spruce furnished for the purpose by Messrs.

T.	J. and F. J. Claxton. The beam, which was 25 feet inches in length, 8 7/8 inches in width, and 17 1/2 inches in depth, was cut from a tree felled

-shout	700 miles north of Victoria a year ago It was subjected to a trails-test on 

Tile beam failed under a maximum load of 38 250 lbs. and as is usual by the rupture of the fibers on the tension side hut by the crippling of the side in compression. The skin stress developed was usually high being a little over 6,000 lbs. per square inch while the coefficient of cluster city was 1,670,000. The strength of he British Columbia spruce is there

 

fore, double that of ordinary spruce or pine	



It is somewhat difficult to understand the recent agitation for the remove from its present site of the Nelson monument in this city, in the light of the fact that tile monument was erected by the Joint efforts the English residents of the city, the first steps hieing taken towards its erection at a social assembly at which the news of Nelson's death was announced Seeking that both nationalities contributed to its erection, and that it his remained  its present position for so many years without objection of an:

kind being made, it must he assumed that the recent agitation was due to the articles of an inflammatory nature which were published in certain o tile papers, and to this cause no doubt must also he attributed the action o the youths who were recently discovered in an attempt to destroy the monument by means of dynamite. The entire agitation has been frowned upon by the more influential class of citizens of both nationalities, whose desire is that the harmony which has prevailed to so large an extent in recent years should continue. While punishment should he needed out to the young men engaged in the attempt to destroy the moment, the fact will no doubt he borne in mind that tile papers referred to were the real cause o the unfortunate occurrence, and the severity of their sentence mitigated d accordingly. 

<article title=" WINNIPEG " author="">

WINNIPEG.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect I 'riser and Builder



If the large number of buildings erected here during the past season is any criterion, Winnipeg has seen the last of the depression which followed her unfortunate boom, and architects arid builders may now look forward in pleasant anticipation of seven years of plenty.



The spell oh cold weather which we have been enjoying, or otherwise during tile last few days has interfered somewhat with the completion of work started late in the season, and the proprietors and contractors interested are watching anxiously for the thaw foretold by the oldest inhabitants.'

A good sign of the times is tile excellent business blocks that are being erected in the country towns of Manitoba and the North-West. In many cases the walls are built entirely of stone, or with stone foundation and brick superstructure, and in every case the ground floor is provided with plate glass windows, and would he no discredit to longer established communities.

Plaits for the Wesley College which the Methodists propose to erect of Portage Avenue next year, are now being prepared. and the design promises a model educational building. It is to hue of stone, four stories it height, and basement. The work throughout to he most substantial. The cost will he about $80,000. This building will add another monument to the ettnergy and enterprise of the above demonstration in this country

The Bank of Ottawa is the most important building erected on Main street this year. and is a good substantial edifice, four stories high. '[lie design might do for a local man hut when one considers that it was prepared be an architect of Toronto, the Athens of Ontario it is certainly disappointing, for it was expected that this enterprising Bank would have provided for the edification of the western rustic a higher type of architecture than he has been accustomed to.



The result of the bye-election which has just taken place here, ma materially affect the building trades, and assist the prosperity of Winnipeg If Mr. Martin, our newly elected member is successful in persuading the Dominion Government to remove the rapids in the Red River so that fir wood, lumber stone, etc., may lie brought here by water from Lake Winnipeg, thus lessening the expense of building by supplying the principal materials used, at a reduced cost. This matter has been under the consideration of the Dominion Government for years, and thought fully convinced its importance they have allowed procrastination to reign supreme, an like Felix, of old, put off for a more convenient season.



The architecture of Winnipeg is now in a transition state, and the woo brick veneer and galvanized iron age, is passing away, and is being success by the stone, brick and copper age. In former years the buildings lien with few exceptions were entirely frame or frame and brick veneer,  wood sills for foundations resting on the sod, or supported on wood pot or piles; hut the public are beginning to realize that it is poor economy n to build for the future as well as for the present, and while they cane afford to immortalize themselves in blocks of marble they can build in substantial and durable manner, with less costly materials, which will r not only give them a permanent investment, hut will add materially to the comfort, especially during our winter months.



The school board is just completing two very fine 8 room school building one in tile south end of the city, and the other in the north end. They constructed of stone and brick, two stories high with basement, and land ball in roof, which is well lighted by a large skylight. The school hoard composed of some of the best men of the city, and deserve credit for

wisdom and forethought they have displayed in the performance of the duties as School Trustees, in purchasing, when increase of population demands more school accommodation large blocks of land in desirable location which w will give or all time ample play grounds for the children, a

when the city becomes closely built.



—

