<doctype type="text">

	6	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	January, 1893



<article title=" SOME EXPERIENCES OF A STUDENT IN VENICE " author="">.



 HE traveller abroad will save much time, trouble and money, if he will plan his tour and acquire Information about it before starting. The experiences of a returned student of architecture ought for this reason to be interesting to those at home whose tour is yet before them. Though I. was myself ill prepared for what 1 had to do, and my tour was, I am afraid, by no means a model always of the best thing done in the best manner, yet I

think intending travellers of the same kind as myself may extract from a narrative of some of my experiences in Venice, which I visited first and where I stayed the longest, hints and information which may be not unuseful to them when they are preparing to go abroad.

While I was meditating my tour I gradually became aware that to mention my purpose to an old traveller was to be charged in reply with a list of practical hints about hotels, pensions, conveyances, etc. I found this rather dull conversation when my tour was more remote, but as it neared accomplishment, began to perceive its interest; and when, upon the eve of my departure from England, a sculptor recommended me to go to the <building>Casa Kirsch </building>in Venice, as a place frequented by artists and English, I made a careful note of it (as I would recommend the student to do with all such hints) and a few days afterwards found myself there.

On the first morning after my arrival as I was having my cafe, or first meal, in the Salle Manger—not having yet learned to take it in my bedroom or in bed in the Continental manner—a young man, who had been transacting business there with a vendor of antiquities, apologized to me in the American tongue for interrupting my breakfast. We had a little conversation, for which I am still grateful to him. I was just then realizing my position of desolation in a strange land, and clung instinctively to a white man, particularly when I found that we had met before and that he was of my own profession. But it came out soon that he was on his wedding tour, and I perceived that he was cut off from me forever. He was, however, good enough to seek me out that evening to give me a piece of advice which I pass on as of the greatest value. It seems that the English and American schools of art furnish their students with medals or tickets of some kind, which, by the liberality of the Italian Government, are convertible into tickets of admission to public museums and galleries of art throughout Italy. A certificate from one of our provincial associations of architects would no doubt be enough to effect this for Canadian students now. I had nothing to recommend me. but my friend came to advise me to apply to the British Consul for recommendation, as a student, to these privileges. This 1 subsequently did, and found it of the greatest service to me throughout my tour. It is not only picture galleries and museums proper that are thus opened to the student, but all the ancient buildings, such as the <building>Ducal Palace at Venice</building>, the <building>Monastery of San Marco at Florence</building>, and others, which are preserved as monuments of antiquity, and kept in charge by the Government. If one visited them as a sight-seer only, once for all, the charge of a franc which is usually made for admission would not be so great a consideration, but a student needs to make many visits. If one puts himself in charge of <person>Ruskin</person>, who so frequently explains one object of study by reference to another, it is desirable to feel free to step for a few minutes only into the building which contains the object referred to. I think also that there are restrictions as to sketching, to which persons other than the holders of these government "promessi" are subject.

My American friend had only time to give me this information when his wife appeared on the scene and carried him off to get what she called "our sunset '—as if the world belonged to. them. He was in the act of warning me that a solitary tour would be very lonely work, when he was snatched from me. I watched them going off in their gondola into the sunset, seated side by side in happy companionship and conversation, and the night of solitude settled down upon me. With the taste of English still in my mouth, I felt the full force of the Englishman's sneer at the Continent as being inhabited entirely by foreigners. Here I was in the midst of them with nothing to, meet the emergency but a certain amount of French vocabulary without any power of putting it together. This brings me to my third point, which is the importance of knowing French, or French and Italian, but French by preference, for it is of great use in Italy, whereas Italian is of no use in France. I was driven to speak in French after a time, for the supply of English guests at the Casa Kirsch soon failed, and for the remainder of my two months' stay in Venice I lived with foreigners of the most remote kind

—a Pole and a Greek, who spoke all the languages of Europe except English. For a time there was a German also with a scar across his face. During his stay the conversation was carried on sometimes in German, sometimes in French; or when a frequent visitor, a young Italian official with a long rat tailed cigar and a habit of gurgling airs from the opera in his throat, was present, the language veered to Italian. But I alone was able to speak English. When the German left us the conversation settled down to French. The Pole—a noble old man—was a poet not without fame (I have seen mention of him in an English review), and a beautiful talker. The Greek, a philolog," was engaged in editing a text of <person>Aristophanes </person>from a manuscript in the library of Saint Mark. They had great conversations, from which I was excluded until I began to get the ring of it. I succeeded first with the Greek. who was very like a smart young American. He managed not only to make me understand him after a time but, what was more to the credit of his intelligence, seemed to understand me. The Pole found more difficulty. I am afraid, now that I come to think of it, that I can hardly have been an addition to the pleasure of conversation. I remember one day addressing a remark to the old gentleman which left him still visibly in the dark. Something called him from the room at that moment. I asked the Greek if he thought I had been understood. He replied, "When one is learning a language there are days when everything goes marvellously; words seem to come of their own accord; other days nothing goes, and one cannot make ones self understood. To-day is one of those days.'

I had prepared myself rather hastily for the opportunities of Venice, and found myself not well prepared. I had read the shortened form of ' The Stones of Venice,' from which I had carried away the erroneous idea that Venice was builded of many coloured marbles. I had also read <person>Howell</person>'s incomparable "Venetian Life," and was somewhat prepared to find Venice, after all, a city composed chiefly of dry land; but I was ignorant not only of the history of Italy but, in any proper way, of the history of architecture. I was puzzled to know where to begin my studies. It is all very well for Street, in his "Brick and Marble Architecture in Italy—a subsequent acquaintance, I am sorry to say: he would have been invaluable as a travelling companion—to regard the monuments of the architectural centuries as a tailor on his travels might the foreign fashions. Street did work of the same kind; he even built vaulted churches. I do not say but that it was a pity that he should have devoted himself so much more to the practices of style than to the principles of beauty. At any rate his method of procedure was not that which would have occurred to me, I think, even if I had been more learned in the history of architecture. I had in my mind continually the very different conditions of Canadian architecture, and sought rather to

study the reasons of the ancient designers than their results alone. With the idea of systematizing my attack on buildings by dividing all building. into the same parts, and so viewing them in an orderly manner, to which conclusion I was driven by the embarras de richesse in which I found myself 1 went to the library of S. Mark in the Ducal Palace to study in the firs volume of the Stones of Venice, Ruskin's admirable analysis of buildings in to their parts. When one has begun that wonderful book, it is impossible leave its study incomplete.

In S. Mark's library no fire was allowed, and it was bitterly cold. The Greek, who spent about six hours a day there, complained of it too. Bu these southern continentals can stand far more in the way of cold than w soft dwellers in a more inhospitable clime. I have seen Italians sit for hours on a marble step in the icy shade which in a short time chilled me to the bone. Fire not being allowed in the library, much less was light, so that all study carried on there had to be done in the precious daylight. It was therefore, a great comfort and advantage to me when the distinguished young Italian engineer who was superintending the restorations of the Ducal Palace, who both speaks and writes English and had himself a venerate copy of the Stones of Venice in his office, discovered me reading in the library and offered to introduce me to a better place. This was the <building>library Querini Stampalia </building>on the Campo Santa Maria Formosa which is warmed with delightful warmth and open until eleven at night. There is not only an excellent library, but the leading papers and journals of Europe lie 01 the tables, so that one can resume connection with the world if he cares to I do not know whether the certificate of studentship I received from the consul would have obtained for me admission to this library without further reference. No doubt a student could procure from the consul what introduction is necessary. As far as I recollect, I came and went after my introduction without further question or scrutiny from any one.

My troubles were at an end as far as study was concerned. With Ruskin as a guide and an opportunity of studying him so comfortably, I was not only happy, but I think profitably employed. Reading in the evening and making notes for study in the daytime, I circumnavigated the Stones of Venice in the course of my stay, verifying every principal allusion in the text to Venetian architecture.

Though founding my operations upon the Stones of Venice, I, o course, went outside of its limits also as objects came in my way It was too cold usually for long sketching. A Canadian thinks of Italy as a mild southern place, but when such unwinterlike work as sitting out of doors to sketch is in question, though the thermometer does not fee the cold much, the draughtsman does. in a sheltered position in the sun was warm enough—indeed on fine days delightful. But it is seldom that one gets a chance of sketching in the sun. Streets are narrow in Italy and get but little sun in the course of the day, for it is shade that is the principal requisite there. Courtyards and cloisters are little better, and the churches are veritable wells. The museums and galleries in which one sometimes finds material for sketching, and which in any case contain matter for the study of every art student, have at the most a brazier here and there, when one can warm one's fingers now and then, and which I suppose must re duce the chill of the air somewhat. But there was nothing of the sort in Venice. The old women who haunt the churches are usually supplied with a scaldino — a crockery pot with a handle like a basket, which contains char coal with coals placed on the top, so that the fire eats slowly through the charcoal, giving warmth for hours. With one of these under her apron in her prayers, or still more effectually disposed for warmth when she stands up. the old women manage to carry out their religious exercises without dying from exposure to cold. Later on in my career in Italy I met a young English architect who wore an Italian cloak and carried a scaldino under

it.	I think there are many occasions when such an arrangement would be feasible and conducive to more careful sketching than I felt inclined to do, with the cold gradually creeping up my extremities and penetrating my vitals. I sometimes did careful sketching under these circumstances, but not as a rule. I always felt a little doubtful of the usefulness of spending much time in drawings for thc sake of rendering them well. A drawing should have no more work on it than is required for the subsequent information of the draughtsman. How much work will meet this demand is a point which the object studied ought to decide. I always felt that I was employing my time best when I made my drawings rough, with the essential points only delineated, and notes and comments written on the edges. I carried a pocket sketch book — long and limber and about four inches wide — which was always ready for notes, and in the course of a morning's walk would fill several pages. Many things which one would otherwise sketch are done to perfection in the Stones of Venice (of which I had a large copy at home). Often also a suitable photograph takes the place of an elaborate sketch, leaving only notes to be made. Indeed, at Venice and elsewhere I adopted the plan of calling at the best photographers early in my visit and inspecting his stock as a sort of illustrated companion to the guide book, that I might judge better of what was before me and what his photographs could do for me. At intervals. I looked in again after the day's work and selected photographs of what I had studied.

One soon acquires facility in grasping the points of a building. guided by the family resemblance that runs through the styles, and I am inclined to think that the practice of making note drawings rather than picturesque ones, is conducive to this facility.

Field glasses are a great addition to one's enjoyment and often of service, and a portable sketching stool also. 1 always carried both with me. One cannot work well standing, and chance seats besides being damp or cold, are usually round the corner. If I had thought of the need earlier, I should have brought a stool from England which would fold up in the form of a stick. I have no doubt they are fearfully uncomfortable, but so much easier to carry than my camp stool, which, when I come to think of it, was not a seat of luxury either. I did not always take it with me, as I might have done a walking cane stool, which would not have been out of place even on a ramble of exploration, but it always came with me when I went to study a definite object — even into picture galleries, where the fixed seats are not necessarily in the best position for attentive study of the picture. Light marching order consisted of the pocket sketch book and field glasses. and, of course, a rule and tape. Heavy marching order added the stool and a leather bag, containing a small board, sheets of paper and other materials and instruments. I could not always tell what I should use, and sometimes used everything, including the field glasses for remote details. I remember making a drawing through the field glasses, which took me two afternoons. I had a bad time with the boys on that occasion. They are always a great nuisance, and grown up people also. One has only to sit down to sketch to have a crowd around him in a moment. One would think that in Italy they are inured to seeing people sketch, but they are still more inured to loafing. On this occasion I was so unfortunate as to have selected an object over the very entrance of a school. The boys came out in floods, at what seemed to me very irregular and unreasonable hours, and surrounded me closely, several deep, and with colds in their heads to a man. It was a little warmer with so much animal life round me, and I needed it on one of these days. I had dropped my hat down the steps of St. Mark's, which lead to the crypt under the chancel. When I went to

