<doctype type="text"> MONTREAL.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

Last month I quoted from a	letter of Mr. L. J. A. Papineau, in which he expressed his regret that so little veneration is shown in this country for ancient buildings. That this disregard for ancient historic landmarks is not universal is however very clearly shown by the interest lately exhibited by all classes of our citizens in the preservation of the old Chateau de Ramezay on Notre Dame street opposite the City Hall. When it became known that it was the intention of the Quebec Government who were the owners of the property to offer it for sale at auction, the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society immediately set about means to prevent the sacrifice of the old building which is one of the few surviving links binding the early history of the city with the present. Meetings were held and resolutions passed asking the City Council to purchase the property with a view to the restoration of the building as a public library and historical museum. Several valuable gifts of books, historical pictures and other relics were promised in case the property was preserved. Petitions were also placed in circulation and signed by upwards of one thousand leading citizens praying the Council to purchase the property. As a result of the general interest thus manifested, the Council at a special meeting called to consider the subject, consented to the petition, and at the sale which took place on the 23rd of Oct., the Mayor on behalf of the city purchased the historical Chateau for $27,000 and some of the adjoining lots for $18,506, while several members of the Antiquarian Society, with the object of preserving to the city the whole square, and preventing the appearance of the old Chateau from being spoiled by objectionable architecture, bought the corner with the three adjoining lots. The property thus purchased at a cost of $32,396 is new offered to the city at cost price.

A movement is on foot with the object of providing a residence in this city for the Governor-General, and the Council are to be asked to consider an offer of Mr. Duncan McIntyre's mansion on Drummond street at the price of $300,ooo for this purpose. In view of the enormous expenditures for public improvements in this city of late, and the heavy interest charges which in consequence must be borne, the wisdom of a large outlay for this purpose may very properly be questioned. In connection with Mr. McIntyre's house an interesting suit is now pending in the courts. The widow of the late W. T. Thomas, who was the architect of the building, has brought action against Mr. McIntyre to recover some $35,000, alleged to have been earned by her husband in connection with the erection of the building. The larger portion of the sum mentioned represented no per cent. commission on the alleged cost of the house. The owner of the house denies that he agreed to pay a commission on the cost. The court upholds him in his refusal to state what the cost was. The matter has not yet reached decision.

The right of the proprietor of a building which is under lease to make changes therein is involved in a suit brought against the Royal Insurance Co. of this city by a firm of advocates occupying offices in their building. Plaintiffs claim that damage was caused to their practice by the changing of the motor power of an elevator, which was hydraulic to electric power. Defendants contended that a proprietor has a right to make changes in the premises occupied by the tenant, provided due diligence be exercised. Plaintiffs argued that due diligence was not used, and that in any case the proprietor cannot make alterations or changes in the premises. The case is yet undecided.

The Royal Victoria hospital is shortly to he opened by Lord and Lady Aberdeen. A description of the building has already appeared in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



I have much pleasure in forwarding to you for reproduction in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a portrait of Mr. J. Nelson, A.R.C.A., the newly elected President of the Quebec Association of Architects, Mr. Nelson has been a modest, though valued worker in the interest of the Association since its  and the honor which has been conferred upon him could certainly not have been more worthily bestowed.



The Victoria railway bridge over the St. Lawrence at Montreal contains

 ...cubic feet of masonry work and 10,500 tons of iron.

LONDON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



The building season of 1893, owing to the exceptionally fine weather with which we have been favored, will he longer than usual, In this city at least the season which is about to close has been the most active in building enterprise experienced for a number of years. So far as I can learn none of the local architects have had occasion to complain of lack of work, while some have found it necessary to trespass on the hours which ordinarily are devoted to other purposes.

In many of the new buildings erected of late there is pleasingly manifest a striving on the part of our architects after the artistic and aesthetic in the treatment of their designs, a disposition to depart from old time sterotyped ideas, which is deserving of commendation. In most instances the efforts made in this direction have had a beneficial effect upon the architecture of the city. 

<article title=" HAMILTON " author="">

HAMILTON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



The past season is declared by local architects to have been one of the most active in building enterprises experienced here for several years, and there are a number of new buildings projected which it is believed will make the season of 1894 a busy one also.

Some expensive residences are at present in course of erection. Among these are the residences of Mr. George T. Tuckett and Mr. C. M. Counsell, both designed by Mr. James Balfour, architect, of this city. Mr. Tuckett's residence is nearing completion, and will be occupied by the owner in a few weeks. It ranks among the most expensive residences of the city, and is certainly one of the most modern in its interior arrangements. It occupies a site on rising ground, and affords a pleasing view of the Bay and Burlington Beach in the distance. The building throughout is constructed in the heat possible manner, and with the best materials. There is no attempt at elaborate ornamentation, but utility, comfort and good taste, are everywhere apparent. The joinery work, which is being done by Messrs. Jos. Hoodless & Son, is deserving of all praise. For interior finishing, oak, bird's eye maple and mahogany, are principally employed. The brick and stone work was done by Mr. Geo. Webb; the plumbing by Messrs. Fairley & Stewart. The heating will he done by two Daisy boilers of the largest size, arranged so that one or both may be in operation as may be required. The drawing room will he decorated in white enamel with white silk panels, the mantel of white onyx. The ceiling will be decorated in keeping with the rest of the room by Messrs. Elliott & Son, of Toronto.

Mr. Counsell's house, although much less expensive, occupies a pleasing location at the corner of James and Markland streets, and exhibits many original and pleasing features of design. The lower story is constructed of stone and the upper stories of brick and wood. The Stone was obtained from a local quarry, and is of good quality but very hard, and so brittle that it is apt to split under the workman's chisel. Often a block will give way just when the work upon it is about finished, thus proving an expensive loss. To such an extent has this occurred that the contractors' profits are not likely to be very substantial, the house is roomy, carefully planned, and excellently lighted, and will no doubt afford every comfort to its owner.



On October 23rd, at the Church of Our Lady of the Holy Rosary, Thorold, Mr. James Battle, cement manufacturer, was united in marriage to Miss Mary Conlon.

At Ingersoll, Ont., a company has been formed and acquired the Canadian business of the Guelick Silica Barytic Co. of Detroit, Mr. Walter Malls, who was manager of the Canadian business of the Detroit Co., will continue with the concern.

An anonymous correspondent of the Orillia Times recently declared that

	local	to submit tenders for work designed by Mr. W. 



H.	Crocker, architect, of that town, being doubtful whether honest competition would prevail." Mr. Crocker, through his solicitor, has demanded a retraction over the signature of the writer. It is to be hoped that the person who would make such a serious imputation under cover of an assumed…

J. NELSON, A.R.C.A.,

President Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

