<doctype type="text">November, 1893	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	117



in a sanitary school building must be ample to do its work. It must be durable, cheap to put in, and cheap to maintain. Furnaces furnishing hot air, steam plants and hot water plants, with numerous modifications and partial unions, are the principal kinds used in school buildings. For years the furnace did good duty, and it still holds its place, at least in the smaller class of buildings. Its first office was probably that of heating, though it was made so that it had to furnish ventilation in order to heat. When steam first came into use its work was entirely that of heating, and for a time schools heated by steam were a long way behind those heated by furnaces. Necessity soon compelled the use of indirect radiators to heat air for ventilation. This system had quite a run, and is still used, though it gradually loses favor as better methods come up.

The marked advance in ventilation during the last few years has been the adoption of a fan or fans run by power for sending the air to the rooms. In furnace-heated buildings the only methods of creating suitable currents was by heat and in order to induce currents in the foul air shaft it was connected with the smokestack the heat of which caused the current. In steam-buildings coils were used in addition to the smoke stack. It has recently been discovered, however, that the heat used to create currents, in the foul-air shaft would be of more service in running a fan to do the same work. Hence fans are in common use. There is a difference of opinion whether one fan or two shall be used. I am of the opinion that with our ordinary leaky rooms two do the work better than one, though there is room for argument on that point.

From the old form of steam plant have sprung many modifications. There is one that heats entirely by steam coils placed in a fresh-air room in the basement, the air being blown to the rooms by a fan. At present I favour the adoption of a central steam plant, running direct radiators to the rooms, an indirect set of radiators to heat the fresh air, a fan to blow it into the rooms and an exhaust fan to take it out. In a cold climate it works well; in fact, I do not see how it would be possible to get so good results from any other method. In warmer places than Minnesota I suppose the hot air system would be sufficient.

This steam system has its faults and can be much improved, especially as regards details of arrangement. While being somewhat mote costly to put in than the indirect method, it makes a very low record for fuel, a good point in any plant. Contrary to expectation, it has been found cheaper to run and fully ventilate than to run the old steam plant without ventilation. It was said when fans came into use and talk of 1,200 cubic feet of fresh air per hour per pupil was made, that it might be very well and quite necessary that we have this fan ventilation, no matter what it cost for fuel. That the fuel bill would be increased no one doubted; nevertheless, it has decreased, and this fact should be a strong argument for its adoption over the country.

The sanitary school building should properly dispose of its waste. I declare for first-class plumbing, without hesitation, where sewerage connection can be had. Where it cannot be had and cesspools are impracticable, I am not so certain what to say. There is a choice between dry closets, crematories and out-of-door privies. As to plumbing, it has been often and justly condemned. It has been the cause of much sickness and death. Whatever it has been, the day has come when a plumbing job can be made practically perfect so that it can be fully recommended for any kind of building. In our modern school building nothing can be better than our best known water-closets, with slate or glass urinals.

However, there are schools where plumbing cannot well be had. There seems to be demand that all toilet rooms shall be inside the building. This demand I believe to be just, provided the inside toilet room can be made quite sanitary; the demand ought to be complied with. But here is the difficulty. The problem seems nearer solution than it did years ago, but there has been great injustice done in the attempt to get a sate device. The principle of the dry closet and crematory is either to dry or burn the sewage. There has been a dry closet in use more or less where the privy vaults were in the basement but wholly unconnected with any other part of the building. This seems to have met with fair success, at least in that it does not admit odors to the schoolrooms, but it costs a large amount for fuel and has no great run.

There is another dry closet in which the privy vaults are connected with the schoolrooms by means of hollow wooden floors and partitions, though sometimes this connection is made through direct ducts. This bold step was evidently taken to save fuel, and though the whole device was carefully arranged and it possesses many taking points, I believe it is inevitably doomed to condemnation as an unsanitary device. No privy vaults connected directly or indirectly with the schoolrooms ought to be upheld for a moment, for although the draught may be made to go the right way some of the time, it will occasionally back up from the privies into the rooms, and no such thing should be tolerated. If outside privies could not be used it would be better for a scavenger to stand at the basement door with a cart and remove the contents of vaults daily or hourly, than for the public to tolerate such a thing. Happily there is a strong sentiment against this device, and attention is being wisely turned to more sanitary contrivances.

Along this line it may be well to say that the recent crematory closet seems to be somewhat in advance of the old dry closet. It has at least the merit of not being connected with the rooms, so what odor there is, not going up the stack provided for it, is not likely to get into the rooms. I have not seen the crematory closet tried, but it seems to promise well. The only difficulty I can foresee is the disposal of the urine, which will accumulate in unpleasant quantities unless the greatest care is taken.

<article title=" COMBINATION LEAD AND FELT ROOFS " author="">

COMBINATION LEAD AND FELT ROOFS.

A novel style of roof combination which is likely to prove more or less interesting to American readers, has been brought to the attention of the foreign world by an invention of Herr Siebel of Dusseldorf; the history of which is decidedly entertaining. The inventor was well aware no doubt that the best protection against dampness arising from the ground into walls is a sheet of lead, and that on account of the great expense of a protection of this kind of sufficient thickness to support the weight of superstructure without tearing, it is common in these days to substitute a sheet of tarred felt. Bearing these things in mind he conceived the idea that both materials might be employed to advantage by inclosing a thin sheet of lead between two thicknesses of tarred leather.

In this way the metal, although thin, acts as an impenetrable barrier to dampness and is not liable, as is the case with felt when used alone, to gradual decay. While engaged in perfecting his invention it occurred to Herr Siebel that the felted lead would make an impervious roof covering, and perhaps a durable one, and thorough tests seem to confirm this idea. The felted lead is solid in the same form as ordinary roofing felt, and applied in the same manner, receiving the usual protecting coating of tar and gravel on top; but the metal protects the felt under it so completely from the evaporation of the volatile portions of the tar, which is the principal cause of the deterioration of composition roofs, that it is said to remain tight for an indefinite period. Even when the lead is exposed, from the decay of the felt over it, nothing is necessary but to lay over it new felt, with tar and gravel finish, to make the roof as good as ever, while an ordinary felt roof which has once begun to rot is not usually worth repairing. The practical man will think of other details, such as the facility with which flashings, glitters and zinc or copper edgings can bc soldered to the lead of the roofing, which seems very much in favor of the new material. It is, however, difficult to roof very thin lead, and it is hard to understand how sheets enclosed in felt could be sold for roofing at a price to compete with a tin roof, which would be better in most respects.



PERSONAL.

We regret to learn that on the 21st of October the residence and office of Mr. James A. Macdonald, architect, Regina, N.W.T., with their entire contents, were destroyed by fire. Mr. Macdonald's instruments, papers, and library were among the articles destroyed.

 <article title=" TRADE NOTES " author="">

TRADE NOTES.

Sheathing "Quilt" is the name of an article recently patented by Samuel Cabot, of Boston. It is intended to take the place of back plastering and other expensive methods now in use for deadening sound and making dwellings and other buildings temperature proof. It owes its name to the fact that it is made of a tough saline grass held in place between two layers of manilla paper by quilting. Its great elasticity makes it a remarkable sound deadener, and its use in this way is quite as great an economy as in any other.

