<doctype type="text">118	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT  AND	BUILDER.	November, 1893



A TABLE FOR TREADS AND RISERS.

<article title=" A TABLE FOR TREADS AND RISERS " author="">

FROM The California Architect republish the following table, which will be found very useful to many of our readers. The spacing of the lines of figures into groups aids the eye in following the direction to the final point.

DIRECTIONS. — In the column beginning with the rise of step desired, find the height of story from top of floor to top of floor, then follow this line to the column under "Risers," which gives the number of risers. In the column under "Treads" find the number of risers less one, and on this line under the column of width of tread will be the length of run.

METHOD OF STORING MOULDINGS.



Mr. Owen B. Maginnis writes as follows on this subject in The Woodworker: -Concerning the proper storing and safe keeping of strips

and moldings, I think the most convenient way to place them for convenient use is that shown in Fig. I. A rack or series of holes or spaces is made, by framing together a front out of 1 1/4- inch or 1 1/2-inch stuff (pine is good enough) after the manner of Fig I, which is shown to be 10 feet 6 inches high. The

























FIG. I -- A MOLDING RACK.	SECTION.



bottom space is 2 feet two inches high and 14 inches wide. The case is ten feet wide, so that 7 spaces are obtained. The bottom spaces are made thus for the larger sizes of moldings or strips, so that they may contain more, and rest solidly and safely on the floor.

In every molding rack the heavy stuff should be stored below, and in order to get a larger quantity into a given space it will be necessary to make the space large.

The rack illustrated here contains 42 spaces for moldings of different sizes, and for convenience and readiness of handling the smallest moldings, as 5/8 and 3/4, beads, quarter-rounds, cones, and such like, are placed in the upper spaces. The section drawn to the right will give the reader a fair idea of its construction. The sides can either be left bare or covered over with 7/8-inch matched stuff, and a crown mold broken round the top to give it a finish, as shown.

The practical mill man and wood worker will at once perceive the convenience of a storage rack like this, for the reason that 42 different sizes and designs of mouldings are a good many, but if more be carried in stock a larger rack with more spaces can be made, or another section added to the one already made. In addition to this, the quantities in stock can be quickly computed, especially if the rack be made a fixed length—say 11 or 15 feet; then 12 and 16 feet lengths can be stored in it and the accurate number of lineal feet arrived at by counting the ends in each space. I am a great stickler for order in a mill, and would



























FIG. 2-—A HOT-BOX.



therefore like to see one of these conveniences in every well regulated one. Numbers can be affixed to the face of the frames for catalogueing and ordering. The dimensions of the various pieces I have marked on the sketch, so that anyone who wants to make a rack after this pattern can easily do so.

At Fig. 2 will be seen an is ometrical drawing of a hot box for heating stuff preparatory to glueing. The pieces can be handily placed in it, being laid on the strips on the bottom, which lie on the steam pipes underneath. The box can be constructed of or one-inch matched or tongued and grooved boards, not wider than six inches, being held together by battens screwed on in the way shown in the interior. The lid is hinged by strong common T-hinges and may, for extra convenience, be in two halves or flaps, in order not to let the heat escape by exposing the entire inside of the box.

