<doctype type="text">October, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	109



profession have not the facilities for studying up the subject which they should have.

With a chair of architecture established in one of our universities you will be in a position to force your pupils to make serious studies, not only in architecture proper, but also in a number of other branches which to-day are very intimately connected with architecture. By means of such a chair there will be uniformity in your studies, and students, on the completion of their course, will be better fitted for the important work which lies before them.

The vocation of architect is a great vocation. Only the full strength and energy of great talents can in this path attain success. Unfortunately, in this country, particularly among French Canadians, resources are very limited. We have not such chairs of teaching as our English speaking compatriots have. They have received noble assistance from some of their wealthy men, and I only hope that some of these days a Stephen, a McIntyre, a Smith or a McDonald among us, will donate $50,000 for the founding of a chair of architecture. This is desirable and, no doubt, will come, and our people will know how to profit by it.

I cannot further prolong my remarks; but before closing, I would say, as my colleague has already said, you may count on the Government when the question of the tariff will come up to consider it with care and to carry it out. I think I can say that without compromising the Government.

I again thank you, gentlemen, for the kind invitation which you extended to us. Rest assured it shall be warmly remembered by us; and if there is any way in which we can be of assistance in the development of your Association, you may rely upon us to do all we can consistent with the duties of our position.

Mr. Roy (translated): Mr. President and gentlemen, I feel the necessity of answering some of the remarks let fall by the honorable Attorney-General, particularly when he suggests to us the advisability of abandoning our idea of a tariff. As the retiring president, I feel there rests with me a responsibility, and this responsibility weighs as heavily to-day as it did during the past year, to see this object carried to a successful issue. I have made efforts to have this tariff ratified by the Government of the day, knowing in advance that what we asked was not of a nature to injure the present Government, but, on the contrary, of a nature to render it aid and support; because the question of a tariff for architects is not like the question of a tariff for doctors, lawyers and notaries. The tariff that we ask to have approved by the Government is one that has existed for a great many years. There is no doubt as to the future, there is no fear that there will be any abuse. What we ask is simply a recognition of the value of the services of an architect, and this is the value established by the courts, and by the means save us from some of the difficulties under which we have labored here in the Province, and particularly before the formation of our association. I must say that since that time whenever we have been called upon in court to value the services of an architect, the court bas gone with us. The question is always put to the architect who is a witness: Do you belong to the Architects' Association? Now, what does this mean? It means that the opinions of those who belong to an association recognized by the law is taken in preference to the opinion of one who is not a member. The tariff which we wish to have accepted by the Government is no different from that recognized every day by the courts. It might be said, well, if it is recognized by the courts, what is your reason for desiring so much to have it sanctioned by the Government? Well, the great advantage which the sanction of the Government would give is, that it would obviate the necessity of our going to the trouble and expense of producing a number of witnesses to prove our charges as being fair and just. The ratification which we ask, and which we will have, if not from this Government, from another, would in this manner be of immense benefit to us. The idea of a tariff was mooted and took form under the existence of another government: it has been kept in abeyance for a long while; but I hope and trust this Government will not neglect to advance it.

I thank the members of the Government present here this evening, and particularly Mr. Nantel, who manifested more good will towards us than his colleague, the Attorney-General. The latter gentleman, however, improved somewhat as he went on, and he may finish by being very good. That is, at all events the hope of the Association. We ask nothing exorbitant. The proposed tariff is one which is recognized as reasonable and just in all the countries of Europe, France, Germany, Italy, England and also by the United States and Canada. In our Province, however, it is not recognized by the law. That is the only difference between our tariff and the tariffs existing everywhere else. As I said before, we must have this tariff sanctioned, and if not from the present government, from another one.

The President then proposed the toast of the Association of A Architects of the Province of Ontario, and there being no member of that association present, Mr. Berlinguet was called upon to respond, which he did in a few well chosen remarks.

The Press was proposed by Mr. Baillairge, who took occasion to say few words commendatory of the work of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and requested Mr. J. B. Mortimer to respond the toast, which he did. He was followed by Dr.

G.	Stuart, editor of the Morning Chronicle, Mr. Lavasseur representing L'Evenement, Mr. Carrel, of the Daily Telegraph, and Mr. Barthe, of L'Electeur.

Honorable T. Chase Casgrain, in rising to propose the toast of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, said

Mr. Chairman and gentlemen It is my privilege it seems and also my pleasure to move the last toast upon the list, the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. I may tell you, gentlemen, that although in my remarks a minute ago I, to certain minds, seemed unfavorable to the Association of Architects, I certainly feel very warmly towards them. And if you knew what good friends I have among the architects of Quebec, I might mention Mr. Baillairge, Mr. Bertrand and Mr. Berlinguet, you would say that I could not but feel very warmly, not only towards the individual members of your body, but also towards the association itself. I am very happy to see that you have been for a certain number of years formed into an association and really I see no good reason why, among all the liberal professions, the profession of architecture should not also form an association in the Province of Quebec. The members of every profession seem now to be forming themselves into associations, and certainly, if the notaries, the doctors and the lawyers have the right to form close corporations, there is no reason why the architects should not also become a corporation and an association.

The question which at present seems to be of the greatest import to the architects, I may say this from what I heard fall from the lips of my friend, Mr. Roy, who even threatened the Government, is the question of a tariff. The question: is a tariff required? is the principal question now upon the tapis. This is the great question of the day. I do not know whether or not there is any question of a tariff reform among the architects. It was hinted that I am opposed to the architects' tariff being sanctioned by the Government. Now, this is not at all true, and I am going to make some very plain statements, as politicians always do, upon this most important subject. You need not think I am going to beat around the bush, or that I am going to say things I do not intend to say or do not mean:

I am going to be very explicit, as you will see when I am through.

You all know that since we have had the great pleasure and the great honor of administering the affairs of the province of  Quebec, we have been kept very busy by our friends on the other side of the House. We have been obliged to fight our battle. We have been in power only eighteen months, and of course we have dealt with very important questions. The question of the architect is an important question; but we have dealt with very important questions; and, to tell the truth, we have not been able yet to consider this plan of tariff. Other tariffs, for instance that of the physicians, have come before the house, but up to the present not on account of any ill-feeling on the part of the Government towards the medical profession, but on account of the opinion which prevails that the country is not yet ready for it, we have not been able to sanction the tariff of the medical profession. Why? I do not know the reason. Why is it that the House will not allow us to do so ? I cannot say. You will understand that if we have not yet taken up this question of a tariff for the architects, without wishing in any way to say anything disrespectful to the members of your profession, it is because we have had to deal with matters which were considered of more importance. We have not so far been able to come to it on the list, and therefore the Government has said neither yea or nay on it. We have it under consideration now; and, of course, as you know, governments generally keep questions of this kind under consideration for some time, and especially the good old Conservative party. But when we make a decision, you know that that decision is generally right, although it takes us a long while to come to the point.

Now, why is it, if the lawyers have a tariff, that the architects, who certainly belong to a liberal profession, should not also have a tariff? That is the question which I, as an individual, put to myself. Is there any reason, any moral reason, any political reason, why the architects should not have a tariff? Mind you, gentlemen, I am speaking for myself; I am not speaking as a member of the Government. I am not in any way binding the Government to any policy. Now, I may tell you this, if I am allowed to give you any advice - and this advice is all the better that it is not paid for; it is disinterested advice -- when you frame a tariff, do not make it too high. Do you know what happened in the House to-day? We lawyers have a tariff, and we are suffering under the effect of that tariff. Our business is decreasing every day on account of that tariff being too high; and we have the threat that was made last year in the House that if our tariff was not reduced the House would take it into its hands to change the law so as not to allow us to make our own tariff, but to have it made by the Lieutenant Governor in Council or by the House itself. I understand that when an architect presents his bill before a court of law to have judgment rendered upon it that any member of your association can be brought up to swear that the charges made are just and equitable, and are charges which should be made upon certain works. Now, I would ask—speaking, mark you, simply as an individual — what would be the difference if you had a tariff sanctioned by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and forming part of our law? The only difference would be that instead of bringing up ten or fifteen witnesses to prove the charges contained in the bill you would

