<doctype type="text">

10	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	January, 1893

<article title=" NOTES ON QUEBEC ARCHITECTURE " author="">

NOTES ON QUEBEC ARCHITECTURE.



NOT only the form of primitive

buildings, but also the materials

 employed, it has been said, were affected by the climate and surrounding circumstances. Such must have been the case with our predecessors in this ancient city some seventy or eighty years ago, as it is evident they respected not a little the rigors of the climate when they universally adopted the steep pitched roof carefully avoiding parapets, projecting cornices,

gablets, or in fact any ornamental or constructive hindrance to the free passage of snow from the roof to the street below. To the tyrannical demands of climate they sacrificed everything but the strictly needful, their great aim being to make their roofs water tight beyond a doubt, and the house in general to be easily warmed. By thick walls, small door and window openings, low ceilings, and "double windows" set flush with the outer face of the walls, they sought to accomplish the latter end, and in so doing yielded to the imperative demands of climate, and proved that, as in the far past, so then, architecture had to bow to the influence of climate. Less now, however, than then, is this influence felt, for in those days the box stove in the hall with a plentiful supply of good hardwood had to do duty for the whole house, and although it was a cheery sight to see the bright glow of the fire and listen to its cheerful roar as the noise of ice-cracks without sounded loud and often, yet the far away corners, and the rooms not in daily use, were far from possessing the genial and pleasant temperature of the modern house heated by a "Daisy," a "Gurney," or other equally good hot water boiler, and its circulating pipes or radiators.

Then in the use of rubble masonry we are reminded of the proximity of the Beauport and Chateau Riches quarries, and the regiment of masons residing in those parishes, combining with their trade the avocation of farmers. Material close at hand, and labor to be had cheap by employing the farmer-mason had its effect, and in many of the old time plain (to a fault), but yet comfortable old homes of Quebec, a striking proof is obtained as to the truth of the statement that architecture is greatly influenced by climate and surrounding circumstances. Such houses as are now alluded to are to be found in St. Louis, St. Ursule, D'Auteil, Couillard and other streets within the city walls. The wooden Doric or Ionic pilaster on either side of the entrance door, with its entablature, frequently ornamented, was the usual embellishment indulged in; the irregularities of the rubble masonry forming the walls is generally found transformed into rectangular blocks by the use of raised mortar joints, and the whole surface then painted.

In many of the houses of this period may be found some rather elaborate wainscotting in pine, but unfortunately always painted, the framing generally moulded on the edge, the panels having chamfered edges and the centres sometimes raised; curved heads or quarter round corners to panels frequently occur ; small dentils in the cornices were also very general. The houses erected about this time in the Lower Town, and being the residences of the merchants of that, time, frequently had vaulted basements of very substantial construction; many of them still exist, and form excellent wine vaults.

Succeeding the foregoing type of house, a more modern class of building followed, the steep roof and flush double windows being still retained, but with fine-cut ashlar front and larger openings, metal roof instead of the old-time wood shingle, loftier stories and higher basements, a distinct change was made. Symmetrical these houses certainly were, but so much so as to stamp them as being cold and tasteless. A few honorable exceptions are to be noted on St. Denis St. Cape, where some of the former merchants of Quebec have built homes for themselves in a more ornate and more costly style.

Within the last fifteen years the taste for modern houses has greatly developed, so that now in all directions residences of good design are to be met with, combining therewith most of what is generally known as "modem conveniences." In not a few instances elegant residences have been erected on the Grande Allee and other fashionable streets. Nowadays all the comforts of hot-water heating, electric lighting, and sanitary plumbing of handsome make, with the elegancies of hardwood finish, tiling, stained glass work, etc., etc., are generally looked for. The effect of all this is, that the old house of 70 or 8o years ago is looked upon with but little favor. Yet in these latter we find that regard paid to climatic demands which it behooves the builder of the present day to meditate upon, and it would be well for him to evolve therefrom a style of building which, while retaining all desirable points in connection with the requirements of climate, might with tasteful handling incorporate the good points of modern building, and out of the whole produce a type of architecture, "Quebec" in character.

These notes must not pass unmentioned the wonderful difference between Quebec's business premises as they are now and as they were 50 years ago. Then our wholesalers occupied, generally speaking, either former dwelling houses or stores built of timber on the various Lower Town wharves — low, dingy

structures they were for the most part — that is, the wharf stores

—besides being twisted and distorted by the settling of their foundations. A few still remain, serving to emphasize the great progress made in this direction when they are compared with the warehouses of the <person>Thibaudeaus</person>, the <person>Hamels</person>, and notably with that recently erected by Hon. <person>P. Garneau</person>, and that erected by <person>Mr. Paquet </person>> — the last named handsomely ornamented by polished granite shafts in all its six stories.

In churches and public buildings too, one may observe a great advance in taste and in conception of the fitness of things generally, so that it is safe to affirm that within the next fifteen or twenty years there will be still more marked improvement, and a still greater effort to introduce modern ideas and features into our buildings, which may be done or ought to be done, without flying in the face of the conditions of our climate. In one direction a marked improvement may easily be brought about—do away with the outer winter sash and substitute therefor an inner sash, which will answer the purpose just as well, and leave the jambs free for architectural treatment, and to be seen the whole year round. As it is, for six months of the year the double window conceals, or at all events greatly detracts from, the ornamentation of our windows by being placed in front of the same.

While admonished by the peculiarities of our climate not to indulge in those pleasing effects of roof treatment which in practice result in leaking roofs and damaged walls, with endless repair bills, yet neither is it necessary that the eaves line should be entirely unbroken and without architectural effect, giving a "squat" and unfinished appearance to the building. By always keeping in view the need of liberal space for the moving off of ice and the avoidance of snow catchers, and by taking needful precautions to prevent the freezing of water at the eaves by deafening inside or by making a double roof, the architect who has had experience in this climate should be able to solve the problem of meeting the exigencies of the latter, whilst he produces a design not entirely devoid of picturesqueness.

The Quebec architect should build, not because this or that style is fashionable, but with proper regard for the requirements of climate and surrounding circumstances, produce such a style of building as will without question assert itself to be of a type suitable to the climate and other conditions of the locality in which it stands. This, the old buildings of Quebec did; let us not despise them, but so improve them and embellish them and adapt them to modern notions, that in the new production we shall have, if not a national, at least a local style of architecture.

	THE	CANADIAN BUILDING STONES.

variety, value and extent of building stones in Canada, appear to be but imperfectly known. With the view of adding to the existing information on the subject we print below particulars regarding some of the principal quarries.

<firm>THE OWEN SOUND STONE CO.

</firm>Until within a comparatively few years the demand for stone in Ontario has not been very great, caused to a certain extent by the very small proportion of good stone which has as yet been revealed in the Province. The freestone used in all large buildings of our towns and cities was brought from a distance of hundreds, sometimes thousands of miles, and at such a great expense as to almost utterly preclude the use of freestone in any other than small quantities or on works of the most expensive nature. This undesirable state of things has at last ceased to exist. In the township of Mono, county of Dufferin, some three miles north of the town of Orangeville, the Owen Sound Stone Company acquired a tract of land about three years ago on which there is a deposit of as good sandstone as is obtainable anywhere. This quarry they have been developing and putting into shape since then. They now have one of the best equipped freestone quarries in America with unsurpassed facilities for the handling, shipping and transportation of their stone.

The sandstone deposit is 16 feet thick, from which blocks of any size up to the capacity of machinery for handling can be taken. Overlying the sandstone there are some four feet of well bedded blue limestone in beds of six inches to two feet thick, and well adapted for footings and heavy foundations and heavy masonry of all kinds. The sandstone is a grey or olive shade, bleaching on exposure to a magnificent white, which experience has shown does not discolor, as do a great many of our high-priced imported stones. This stone also hardens by exposure, there are no flaws or drives, it is easily worked, and is, in fact, a nearly perfect sandstone. Experts pronounce it equal in every respect and superior in a great many ways to the very best free-stones hitherto in the market. The quarry can furnish almost anything in the line of stone suitable for heavy and light work of every grade. It has a present working face of between 500 and 600 feet, which is being gradually extended. Eight derricks, two planers, one set saws, all run by steam, are employed. The company intend putting in channelers next season.

During the past season they have been busily engaged in building a line of railway to the quarry. The line which is now finished is according to the main line standard and four miles in length. Starting from the <building>C. P. R. station at Orangeville</building>, it parallels the main line for a short distance and then curves off towards the quarry. Some heavy work had to be done in the shape of heavy filling, rock and swamp grading, and there is one immense cut at the quarry end of the line. Adding to this two

