	<doctype type="text">100	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	October, 1893



this the erection of a number of business blocks is in contemplation. It is anticipated that the coming year will witness even greater activity in building than that which has marked the present one.



THE new Board of Trade building in Montreal was formally opened a fortnight ago by our newly arrived Governor General, Lord Aberdeen. The occasion was marked by a banquet at the Windsor. Among the invited guests were many prominent lights in the commercial and political world. There was a great deal of speech-making. Properly enough much was said regarding the commercial interests of Montreal and the Dominion, and in praise of the part taken by the Montreal Board of Trade in the promotion of those interests. Singular, however, appears the fact that little or nothing was said about the new building itself, the completion of which was presumably the object of the gathering. Nor does a word appear in the report of the proceedings in commendation of the architect who designed and superintended the erection of the structure. There is nothing in the published report of the proceedings to show that he was even invited to take any part whatever in the opening ceremonies. We are at a loss to conclude whether the building is deemed unworthy of praise, or whether on payment of the architects fees, all the credit of the undertaking is supposed to revert to the financiers.





THE citizens of Toronto have been looking long and anxiously for indications of a return of the prosperity and steady progress experienced prior to the real estate boom, and the time of depression which followed in its wake. Architects and builders have naturally been amongst those who have watched most closely the situation, and will have reason to feel dissatisfied with the report of the assessors that the population has decreased during the year, and consequently that there are more vacant houses. Several errors have already been found in the report, and so little dependence is placed on its correctness, that a special police census has been ordered to be taken on the 1st of November to determine the actual condition of affairs. The opinion among architects and builders with, whom we have discussed the subject appears to be that many of the houses which were vacant a year ago are now tenanted, and in consequence a moderate amount of building for residence purposes may be anticipated during the coming year. It is to be hoped that the result of the census will show this view to be the correct one. In any event, it can be said that the number of architects in Toronto is considerably greater than the present or prospective demand for their services would warrant, but in view of the commercial and industrial stagnation prevailing in the United States and other countries, there would seem to be. great difficulty in the way of their removal to a more promising field.





THE City Engineer of Toronto was recently requested by resolution of the Council to report on the advisability of using native cement for concrete and other works. In his report he says: "Native Portland cement has been used on the works during the past year with very satisfactory results. Frequent tests are being made of this cement, and it is found to be of excellent quality, so that there is no objection to its use on city works, and it is not excluded therefrom. Regarding native natural cements, in my experience they are very much inferior to Portland cement. There may be, however, no special reason why they could not be used in some cases. For roadway work their use would involve considerable delay on account of their slow-setting character. The difference in cost between this cement and Portland cement, when used in concrete, would not be so great as is generally supposed, as a larger quantity of cement is required to be used to make a cubic yard of concrete. I have, however, inserted a clause in the specification for work which is now being advertised, providing that the contractor state in his form of tender the amount he is prepared to deduct from his contract price in case natural cement is ordered." In addition to the manufacture of natural cement which has been carried on extensively in Canada for many years, several companies have lately commenced the manufacture of Portland cement, as a result of which importations of cement are reported to have materially decreased.

A REPORT of the proceedings of the annual convention of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects appears in the in the present issue. Owing probably to the fact of the meeting being held in Quebec, the attendance was small, and the business transacted principally of a routine character. A couple of excellent papers were presented by Messrs. A. T. Taylor and Chas. Baillairge. We regard it as unfortunate that the visits to points of interest precluded discussion of them. It is gratifying to notice that the importance of proper facilities being provided for the study of architecture has impressed the minds of leading men in the profession in the Province of Quebec. It is to be hoped that the attention bestowed on the subject at this convention will serve to call public notice thereto, and assist in paving the way for the establishment of a Chair of Architecture in connection with one of the great local universities. We regard this as by far the most important work to which the efforts of the Association can be directed. Had Mr. Baillairge in his otherwise admirable paper kept more closely to this subject, he might have laid before the public a much stronger case on behalf of the proper training of those who will be the architects of the future, and we hope that at some future time he will return to the subject and for the benefit of the profession and the public review it in all its aspects. Mr. Taylor's paper on the Architecture of the World's Fair is a most skilful and interesting portrayal of his observations at the "White City." It is interesting to compare the facts as stated in this paper with the impressions of one of our correspondents in his article in this issue entitled "Notes from the World's Fair." It will be noticed that agreement of opinion exists on one point at least, namely, that the Canadian Building does no credit to Canada.



MESSRS. Dill & O'Hearn were recently given a contract for painting the exterior wood and iron work of one of the Toronto public schools. After the contract was completed, a Mr. Moore, who is alleged to be a rival contractor, charged Messrs. Dill & O'Hearn before the Public School Board with having violated the specifications by giving the building one instead of two coats of paint. A committee of the Board was appointed to investigate, and reported that they were of opinion that two coats of paint were not given to the whole of the work, and that as to any part of the work which might have received two coats it was done in a very hurried manner and not in accord with the intention of the specifications. The contractors admit that the work was hurried, but claim that otherwise it was properly done. When the report came before the Public School Board for consideration, it led to a warm discussion. The chairman created a sensation by stating that it had for a long time been a by-word in Toronto that work in connection with the public schools had been scamped, and that specifications were so drawn that certain favored contractors could secure the work. These remarks, reflecting severely upon the honesty of the Superintendent of School Buildings, were very properly resented by some members of the Board. The Superintendent is, we believe, above such conduct. The report of the Committee was adopted without the Superintendent being asked to report on the case, or explain his position in relation thereto

—	a course of action which must be deemed to be most unfair to the head of an important public department, more especially in view of the fact that the work had not been finally passed by the Superintendent and there was owing to the contractors on other contracts more than sufficient to cover any defects in the work It is alleged that the man who preferred the complaint had been detected in an attempt to scamp a contract which he had secured from the Board, and that his action in the present case was an attempt to get even with the Superintendent for having compelled compliance with the specifications.

<article title=" AN ARCHITECT'S OPINION OF THE "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER " author="">

AN ARCHITECT'S OPINION OF THE "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER."

Mr. F. J. Rastrick, the well known architect, of Hamilton, Ont., writes: After an examination of the last year's numbers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, I wish to congratulate you upon the great improvement which has been attained. It has become quite an artistic publication, and one which is not excelled amongst the architectural publications of the United States or Great Britain.

