<doctype type="text">November, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	113



Although it is possible to balance the cost of the whole block by the price of a portion only, laid out for building upon, it is of course impossible in the present state of affairs to do this at once, and so give the city an open space for nothing. Whether or not this may be the ultimate result is a question chiefly of population. But it is also a question of management. The value of the ground to the city, both as an attractive feature and also as a financial investment, depends to an extent that it would be hard to overestimate upon the skill and judgment with which it is laid out. It is a case for an expert adviser whose fee would be returned many times in increased availability of the land and its enhanced value. The better the opportunity given for profitable investment of capital, the greater is likely to be the response and — which is important — the quicker. There have been for some time rumors in the air of a big hotel, connected with the names not of one set of promoters only but of several. That the lack of such a hotel is a loss to the city is now common opinion.  The Upper Canada College grounds have been often talked of as a suitable site. They are near — and yet not too near the water, the Union Station, and the business part of the city. A site inside the grounds would give the hotel retirement from the streets combined with a southerly aspect and an outlook over the Government House grounds, which may someday form an even more pleasing prospect. If, by municipal intervention to treat the whole square, immediate surroundings which are agreeable can be secured for the hotel without involving an extensive purchase of land by its stockholders, it is likely that the scheme would at last hatch out and the big hotel form not only a speedy and large contributor to the cost of purchasing the block, but an attraction to other purchasers and a standard of character for the buildings, which would increase the revenue to be derived from the land and also raise the value of neighboring property.

<article title=" TORONTO TECHNICAL SCHOOL " author="">

TORONTO TECHNICAL SCHOOL.



LATE in the fall of 1891 the City Council passed a by-law establishing the Toronto Technical School, providing the means and appointing a Board, giving them full powers to obtain a building and equipment, to select a staff of teachers and to draw up a scheme whereby might be placed within the reach of mechanics and artisans and the employed of the city generally, the means of acquiring those elements of an education which would be of most value to them in the pursuit of their various avocations.

The preliminaries were attended to by the Board, but it was well on in January before the school could be opened. They had succeeded in securing for temporary use the building formerly occupied as Wycliffe College, on the north side of College street at the head of McCaul. It needed some refitting. From the start the school was well attended. The work of the first term was naturally to a great extent experimental, though by considering the special needs of the students and comparing the work done at various similar schools abroad, a programme was followed out which has not had to be materially altered excepting in the way of enlarging upon it and co-ordinating more thoroughly the different parts. This term extended to the first of May. Classes met five nights a week between eight and ten o'clock each night.

In October, 1892, the school re-opened, and again with a good attendance. This was expected to be the trying year. It was thought that the novelty of the appearance of this institution in Toronto might account for the good attendance during the opening term. If it tided over this year it would indicate that such a school could be of use. The register went up during the year to over three hundred and thirty, more than realizing the hopes of its most sanguine supporters. The school continued to thrive, though in cramped quarters, and with temporarily equipped class rooms. The students meant business, they came to learn and the teaching staff worked with a will. The results were most satisfactory.

Again at the beginning of last month the school re-opened. The classes were crowded from the very start. As compared with a similar period last year the attendance this year has been multiplied by four. In the first week last year somewhat over 100 were registered; in the first week this year four hundred and fifty, and at the end of the second week five hundred and fifty were registered.

It is no longer a question whether there is room for such a school in Toronto. The experimental stage is past. It has

come to stay. It is now for the city to show its appreciation of the value of such a school for the education of its mechanics and artisans by assisting it in its development, by providing it with more commodious quarters, and when necessary, by increase of staff or equipment. The sooner it is provided with better accommodations the better will be the results accomplished. It is now in a building greatly inadequate for the purpose. Why should not steps be taken at once to acquire for it better and permanent quarters? As long as it is cramped for room, and unable to separate the different grades and classes of work in the draughting room, as long as some of the elementary classes are three or four times their proper size, as long as chemistry, hydrostatics, light, heat, sound, electricity and electrical testing and laboratory work wait their turn in one small room, so long will the school be unable to accomplish the work that is evidently cut out for it in this city.

The ground at present covered by the course is comprised under the following heads Mathematics (including arithmetic, algebra, Euclid and trigonometry); Draughting (including practical, mechanical, architectural and geometrical drawing and copying, as well as classes in practical geometry, orthographic and oblique projection, perspective, etc.); Mechanics (including statics, kinematics and dynamics), Physics (including hydrostatics, heat, sound, light and electricity and magnetism); and chemistry (inorganic). There are two classes, a junior and a senior, in algebra, Euclid, mechanics, draughting and descriptive geometry, electricity and chemistry.

The students in chemistry also have the opportunity of doing practical work in a chemical laboratory which has lately been fitted up for the purpose.

While the course as outlined is as extensive as can be expected under the present conditions, there are still channels along which it might be still further developed — even while keeping along the same general lines- which would be of great benefit to a considerable number of students. Some of these extensions have already been proposed, but cannot be carried out for lack of accommodations. Classes in decorative design, freehand drawing, etc., have often been asked for. There are a number of subjects that would be of value to engineers and mechanics, such as the working principles of the steam engine, the testing of materials for strength, etc., foundry and machine shop principles, etc., etc. Other extensions would suggest themselves if the school were allowed to develop freely.

The Toronto Technical School has started and we hope to see it continue to prosper. We are satisfied that the city which has generously supplied it during its earlier days when its existence was an experiment, will not now allow it to stop short of its full possibilities.



 ILLUSTRATIONS. 

                                      RESIDENCE FOR C. W. LEONARD, QUEEN'S AVENUE, LONDON,

ONT. — MOORE & HENRY, ARCHITECTS.



This building consists of basement, two main floors, and finished attic, and is built facing the south. The foundation is of Credit Valley brown stone, and the upper walls of red pressed bricks and red sandstone.

The interior is finished in various hardwoods, heated by hot water and lighted by gas and electricity; cost $12,000.

ENTRANCE TO FREEHOLD LOAN BUILDING, TORONTO. — E. J LENNOX, ARCHITECT. -- HOLBROOK & MOLLINGTON,

 SCULPTORS.

 WESTMINSTER PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, TORONTO. GREGG &

GREGG, ARCHITECTS. 





QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

[Readers are invited to ask through this department for any information which they may require on line consistent with the objects of the paper. Every effort will be made to furnish satisfactory answers to all such inquiries. Readers are requested to supply information which would assist us in our replies. The names and addresses

of correspondents must accompany their communications, but not necessarily for pub publication.]





E.	A., Toronto, writes: Through the columns of your valuable paper would you please tell me what extra training would a person holding a School of Practical Science Diploma of Architecture require to become an architect?

ANSWER. — We presume that by "an architect" E. A. means a member of the Ontario Association of Architects. A graduate of the School of Practical Science can become a member of the Association by serving under articles of apprenticeship in the office of a member of the Association for three years (of which one year may have been served during the vacation of the School) and by passing the examinations of the Associations.

