<doctype type="text">



AMERICAN SCHOOL BUILDINGS.*

<article title=" AMERICAN SCHOOL BUILDINGS " author="Pardee, Walter">

As to the requirements of a sanitary school building and one best suited to the needs of children, say a common school of twenty rooms First, it should be as nearly fire-proof as practicable. Children do not have the strength and experience of adults and cannot look out for themselves. If it cannot be fireproof reduce the fire risk as much as possible. Wooden partitions, though often used, should be avoided. If outer walls are furred, it should be done with fireproof furring. Stairs should be enclosed in brick shafts, and the stairs themselves made of solid material, preferably of hard wood for both risers and treads, with fireproof or slow-burning construction underneath them. If floors are of wood on wooden joists, as they generally must be, the spaces between the joists should be cut off with solid plank in addition to the usual bridging. On no account should the floors be raised from the joists for the purpose of circulating air underneath unless all parts are fire proof. Floors should be of good smooth hard wood, closely laid on an under floor, and deadened with mineral wool or something as good. Joists should not run through from wall to wall, and should be so placed as to drop out without tearing the wall in case of fire. The danger from fire can be considerably lessened by judicious planning, so that all rooms are easily accessible to the halls and the stairs. All exits should be so plainly indicated that a stranger would have no trouble in choosing them at once.

The sanitary school building should be well lighted. This matter has received considerable attention from scientific men. It is claimed that an ideal system would bring in the light from the top of the room and distribute it equally throughout. Many object to this because it appears prison-like besides in a building with one room over another it is impracticable. Schoolrooms being generally lighted from side windows it becomes a question as to number and location. It is conceded that the light should enter as near the ceiling as possible, therefore windows reach to the ceiling or nearly so.

It has been customary to follow the rule that light should come over the left shoulder, so as to avoid a shadow on the desk from the right hand; but while this is a good rule it is found hard to apply it where several pupils are together, as in a schoolroom, since that which will be left-shoulder light for one pupil will not be for some other. In practice an average is struck, and the windows so placed as to properly accommodate the greatest number. With windows on one side only about one-half the pupils get the left-shoulder light in some degree when they sit with the left side to the windows. The other half get the light chiefly in the left eve, or more in the left than in the right. That is a bad arrangement and prolific of unequal vision. This can in some degree be lessened by placing thc side windows well towards the rear, and placing some on the rear as well. There is then, however, the objection that the pupils in the diagonal corner furthest from the light are too much in the dark.

In a room lighted wholly from one side and the pupils placed with back to the light some curious facts are noticeable. First, the same number of pupils receive left-shoulder light, as in the former case — that is, one-half; the other half receives the light over the right shoulder, not a desirable thing and not to be tolerated unless there is enough reflected light to dissipate the shadow cast by the right hand on the desk. If there can be such reflected light, and there is no doubt about that, it gives the best light I know of for so many pupils, since as many get left-shoulder light as in the other way, and none of them get it partly in front. That this is the best arrangement for pupils I think there can be no question, though upon the teacher it is especially hard, though it may be said that the teacher can always move about, while the pupils must stay where they are.

I think it is common to put some windows on the side and some on the end of each room, where it can be done, though I am inclined to think the side light the better, if it could be properly curtained and managed by the teacher. Whatever the position of windows there should be plenty of them.

The sanitary school building must be well heated and ventilated. These two things can be considered together, though heating alone used to bc the first and only consideration. The requirements call for the right amount of fresh air and heat,

* Abstract of paper read by Walter S. Pardee at the annual convention of Building

properly introduced to the rooms and circulated therein. Economy seems to call for a central plant for the supply. One of the main difficulties to overcome after a ...heating device has

 

been provided is the proper inlet, exit and insulation of the ventilating air in the schoolroom. Unless this work is properly done the whole plant is a failure, and it is a fact that much confusion exists as to the method to be employed. The problem is made more difficult of solution because the atmospheric changes are so rapid and radical that no single arrangement of the working parts will answer for any certain time. Obviously the best way to have the air enter a schoolroom would be at openings all over the floor, and it should leave at a like number of openings in the ceiling. That way is not practicable where rooms are over one another, and therefore the common way of introducing air into the room is by single and ample opening. It is let out by another. Where these inlets and outlets shall be placed with reference to each other and the room itself is a question in dispute. Much confusion obtains on this point — perhaps because people believe it is possible to adjust the openings to suit all occasions. The question will be much nearer solution when this belief is eradicated. In some rooms the inlet will be found at the top and the outlet at the bottom in others it will be the reverse. In some there will be inlets and outlets at both top and bottom in others the inlet and outlet on the same side of the room. In others the inlet will be on one side and the outlet on the other.

Probably there will be confusion on this point so long as the single inlets and outlets are used.

We must have circulation through the room and we get it in one of two ways. Either the air may enter cooler than the room, in which case, if the inlet is at the bottom and the outlet at the top, a fair circulation will be given; or the air may enter warmer than the room, when, if thc inlet is at the top and the outlet at the bottom a good circulation will be got.

Since it is a fact that air must sometimes enter warm and sometimes cool, so as to maintain the standard of heat, it will be seen that neither arrangement of openings will answer for both cases, and the working parts cannot be so fixed as to give perfect satisfaction. If both inlets and outlets are provided at top and bottom when cool air is wanted, the floor inlet and the ceiling outlet can be used. When warm air is wanted the ceiling inlet and floor outlet can be used. But aside from the difficulty of getting any one to understand it, it would take one person's time to watch the thermometers and manage the dampers. Present practice largely adopts the ceiling inlet and floor outlet, ignoring the fact that incoming cool air falls to the floor, and poor circulation is the result.

This intermittent lack of circulation is a grave difficulty and hard or impossible to be avoided when the inlet is high and the outlet low, more especially when a room is heated by air alone. 

Some engineers try to prevent notice being taken of the difficulty by putting the inlet at or near the floor. When the air comes in warm it rises to the ceiling, distributes, cools and falls to the floor, leaving at the foul-air opening. Under these conditions the air appears to circulate properly, the only objection being a current of hot air striking the pupils. The current of air is made less noticeable by a screen; that is, of course, unnecessary when the inlet is above. On the other hand, with inlet at the floor and the air coming in cool, there is and can be little or no circulation through the room, the air simply entering, flowing along the door, and leaving at the outlet. This seems to be a case of out of sight and notice, out of mind. The lack of ventilation is not easily discovered, arid thus gives a fine chance for the professional quack to show off his system of ventilation, for with his air meter at the inlet and outlet he finds the Full volume of air passing that he guaranteed to furnish, and no one stops to inquire whether that air gets to the proper parts of the room by circulation.

I believe it would be a good system to heat the floors evenly and always bring the air in cool, provided that the floor heat could be controlled and unpleasant draughts prevented.

It is hard to say where the inlets and outlets should be placed to satisfy all conditions, but I have advocated putting the inlet high and the outlet low, though I am quite ready to...

should a better way be found.

