	<doctype type="text">108	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	October, 1893



and it is satisfactory to see that a very free use is now being made of iron joists and concrete floors; nor can we reasonably hope for much more than this, with brick partitions instead of lath and plaster, as no one will ever consent to dwell or even pass his or her office hours within a building entirely of stone and brick and iron. No one can nor will put up with any such permanent and continuous discomfort for the sake of an eventuality which may never occur, or so seldom as not to warrant the expense of iron floors and stairs and doors and window sashes and their trimmings, thus surrounding one with ever chilling influences and more dangerous contact in cases of collision or of a slip or fall.

I have already reminded you in my last years' paper on Escape from Buildings in Case of Fire" that there can be no real or reliable fire proofing unless all joists and beams and columns and other iron work lie protected under a covering of terra cotta or some other non-conducting substance, as the mere furniture in any building — the carpets, curtains and upholstery. beds and bedding, clothes and linen and the like, the goods in storage, are always likely to produce such a heat as to cause wrought iron to shear and warp and give way, cast iron to crack and break, especially when reached by a column of water playing upon it from a fire engine.

I now beg to bring this conference to an end by reminding you of the advisability of providing for escape in ease of fire as I am glad to see you are doing to some extent, as in the new Victoria Hospital and elsewhere, but having read a paper on the subject at your last meeting as just stated, I need not now further insist on the precautions to be taken,

No provision, I am sorry to say, has, as yet, been made for escape in case of fire from the six story new so-called Fortress Hotel recently erected in Quebec, though the interior of the horseshoe is admirably suited to a series of continuous galleries, one to each story onto which any one could step from his bedroom window and in a moment reach the street level by one or more light iron stairways, the whole in no way disagreeably obtrusive to the eye. It is to be regretted also that this otherwise elaborate building should be disfigured by an ogee roofed turret instead of conical, like all the others, springing from the apex of the roof over the main entrance on Des Carriere St., where it is altogether out of place to have one pyramid on top of another. The upper angle of the main building also obtrudes itself offensively to the eye in awkward proximity to the roof just alluded to, and which to hide the defect and ease off the difference in height between the kitchen wing and main building should have been made just one story higher than it is. The angle turrets, one at corner of Des Carrieres and St. Lewis streets and the two at the south west end of building, do not produce the good effect they would had they been made like others to stand out from the angle instead of coming flush with it, lint the greatest defect and eyesore so far, contrary to all rules on ethics and not to be for a moment tolerated by even the most uneducated eye, is the heavy stone gablet rising from the eastern front towards the St. Lawrence and resting partly nit a pier and partly over an opening or window which in common sense should be if required, in some way made to look like the remainder of the supporting piers.



After the reading of the above paper, the delegates visited the new Frontenac Hotel, Garrison Club, etc. Carriages were in waiting to take them to see the ancient Beauport church, after the inspection of which they were royally entertained by Mr. Francois Parant, ex-Mayor of Beauport, in the old home of Montcalm. 



THE BANQUET.

<article title=" THE BANQUET " author="">

After the first toast, that of The Queen, had been duly honored, Mr. Roy, the retiring President, proposed the toast of the Government of Quebec, which was received enthusiastically. Hon.

T.	Chase Casgrain, Attorney General of the Province, being called upon to respond, said (translated from the French):

Mr. President and gentlemen : I thank you very much for having drank the toast of the Government of Quebec. I must tell you that the health of the Government of Quebec is at present excellent, notwithstanding that my friend Mr. Barthe here says to-night in his paper that it is a moribund government. I thank you for your kindness in inviting the members of the Government to assist at this sumptuous banquet. To Mr. Nantel and myself it is certainly a great pleasure to be among you; and I have been charged particularly by the Premier to say that were it not for his engagement in Montreal in connection with the reception of His Excellency the Governor General he would be here to-night.

I think history, in giving us an account of the building of the Tower of Babel, for the first the speaks of architects. We are told this was an enterprise which had to be abandoned owing to the confusion of tongues. To-night, however, we have no Tower of Bable to construct: there is no confusion of languages, no confusion of ideas, no confusion of any sort; but the large attendance and the look of contentment depicted in every face are indicative of the good will and harmony which exist among the members of your profession.

I know you will follow the example of your ancestors, who, I have heard it said, even in the time of Solomon, charged very moderate fees for their services. I have found out, since I became a member of the Executive, and since I have had to do with architects, that their prices are extremely modest. Another thing that I have had the pleasure of ascertaining is, that "ye olden time" architects had no tariff; and I am glad to see that you of the present day follow in their footsteps in this respect. I speak as a man of experience on tariffs. We impose on the lawyers a tariff, force them to accept a tariff, and what is the consequence? To-day lawyers cannot charge more than the tariff nor less than the tariff: they are bound by it, As a result, if a lawyer go to Ottawa to plead a case he cannot charge more than five dollars, and if we had no tariff, he would probably charge five hundred dollars: so there is no advantage there. Now, if you had a tariff, you would he in the same position: you could not charge more than the tariff, although sometimes you would feel inclined to do so. I am sure it would be so injurious to you that you would not be inclined to offer such a banquet as you have this evening. Gentlemen, don't make a tariff. In making a tariff you make a rope with which to hang yourselves. I would

like to be able to convince you that a tariff would not be productive of the good which a great many of you would expect to see flow from it.

I shall not prolong my remarks, but would say, however, that you have shewn us an attention of which we should show our appreciation; and I can assure you that when you come before the Government with demands that are just and reasonable — I see my friend Mr. Berlinguet looking at me as if to remind me that I should not promise too freely—when you do come with demands such as you have made heretofore, you will find in my colleague, Mr. Nantel, a minister ready to give your profession that which all professions have in the Province of Quebec.

Hon. Mr. Nantel, Commissioner of Public Works, being then called upon, said (translated from the French):

Mr. President and Gentlemen : Like my colleague, the Attorney General, I am sensible of your kindness in inviting me as a member of the Government to attend the annual dinner of your Association. Like him also I understand the importance of this Association of Architects ; I understand its importance from the point of view of the benefits which it will confer on the profession in general and on the individual member thereof.

I will not say very much to you of the tariff, because my colleague has told you what he thinks of it. His remarks as to the lawyer's tariff was certainly news to me, and at the same the you; and you must have been surprised to hear that these gentlemen were willing to renounce their tariff. I am sure the lawyers feel very much embarrassed about this. In this connection I am reminded of the fable of LaFontaine, in which lie tells us of a fox who, having been deprived of his tail, tried to convince all his fellow foxes of the uselessness of this valuable appendage. The lawyers see themselves menaced in the profession of their tariff, because it us quite clear this tariff cannot be maintained; and should they in advance preach the inutility of tariffs for the other professions, they would be even more foxy than they are supposed to be.

Now to be a little serious, my advice to you is: Do not do as he says, but do as he does, and have a tariff. Have a tariff as other professions have, and as your profession has in almost every other country.

The profession of architect is one which, in every country and among every people which has been blest with civilization, has ranked high. Architects have always been the pioneers of good taste, prosperity and progress. Architecture is not only one of the fine arts, but also a science. It is not only useful, but is indispensable; and it has been said - and with good reason — that in judging the architecture of a country, we judge the degree of prosperity which they have attained, and of the civilization which exists among its people.

Gentlemen, you have formed yourselves into an association, and I for one entirely approve of it. In association is strength ; for it is the union of all the individual forces in a great whole. The idea of associations is particularly strong in this country, where men in every path of life are united in associations for the better attainment of their ends as individuals ; and associations are and will be respected so long as each individual does his own share and is prepared to often sacrifice his own particular interests for the general good. You, gentlemen, have taken the means of making yourselves respected, and will, no doubt, continue in the course you have up to the present been pursuing- Be great, be strong, be powerful : it is your right. On the other hand, you have certain duties to perform, and among the most important is the improvement of the means of studying your profession. It is your duty to elevate the standard of your profession, and have it do here what it has done in the great countries of Europe in France, in Italy, in Germany, in England—and we may say with candor, in the United States, No doubt we fluid there specimens of architecture which are somewhat uncouth, but we also find there grandeur, purity and above all, originality. We have there evidence of accurate study of the great architects, who alone possessed the trite aesthetic taste. In the United States they make strenuous efforts to approach the Grecian style of architecture as being the standard; and in Europe they find that the nearer they approach the Grecian style the more perfect are the architectural creations.

We have seen with great pleasure in the newspapers that there is question of founding a chair of architecture which will he affiliated to one of the existing universities, either in Montreal or Quebec. This is a grand idea ; and I hope you will push it to a successful issue.

We need reform in the mode of building, anti particularly in the mode of constructing houses in the cities and in the suburbs of the cities of this province. I might mention specially the suburbs of Montreal. When in Minneapolis some years ago, I could not but admire the style in which the houses in the outlying portions of the city are built. There they begin by making ditches for irrigation purposes, by planting trees, by levelling the ground, and so on, till the house with its surroundings us a thing of beauty to look upon. In Montreal, for instance, what do we see? Buildings put tip in a field, without even any provision for drainage being made, and we know to what it gives rise from a sanitary point of view. I think architects should combine with the municipal authorities to do their utmost to protect the community against these abuses. Sufficient attention is not at present paid to the laws of hygiene by a great number of architects. I must say, however, that students of the

