<doctype type="text">

January, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER.	9



the contented shepherd in the presence of his well-favored flock upon the grassy slopes of his native land.

But the methods of mankind are changing, and that contention and rivalry which has long since become second nature to most of us is now being gradually transferred from the more repulsive occupation of killing each other, to the more peaceful, and at the same time more profitable — the industrial and commercial. Should these eventually become the means, or some of them, through which national rivalry may be carried on to an almost unlimited extent, may we not expect to see similar results from peoples so exercising themselves as was developed by the methods now happily becoming things of the past? Is it not worthy of note that the American nation which is being recognized on all hands as making the greatest progress in architecture and exhibiting characteristics in its work said by those who know best to lie elements of a new style, that they should be par excellence the people who are seeking, by constant and most strenuous efforts in the industrial and commercial spheres, to climb above all other national competitors? Turning at once to ourselves (for it is more profitable to speak of our failings than to dwell on our excellencies, though they be many) what a strange contrast we behold. How often we see in our daily papers the assertion that still more intercourse with the United States — some even going so far as to say complete subjugation to them—is the panacea for all our ills; and some business men have been very much disposed of late to place a premium on American architects by engaging their services when any work of importance is under consideration. What wonder then is it, that if same of our fellow countrymen exhibit such an unfortunate bias of mind in this direction, that many of our important buildings should express the same?

We need to be weaned from all such habits of thought, and to awake to a consciousness of our position as a nation, and our value to, as well as our dependence upon, the other countries of the world. I am fully convinced that never till that is accomplished within us, and it has become a habit of our mind to think thus broadly, can we have work which will possess a distinctively national mode of expression. and which shall thereby be of such a character that other peoples will study it with profit as they have studied American architecture.





CHARACTERISTICS OF ARCHITECTURAL STYLE

<article title=" CHARACTERISTICS OF ARCHITECTURAL STYLE " author=" G. F. STALKER ">

By G. F. STALKER.



(Continued from page 120.)

In the preceding papers on this subject it has been shown that the chief characteristic of what is commonly known as ancient architecture was horizontality; although some architectural forms which became the dominant features of subsequent styles were not unknown to the ancients. The pointed arch, for example. was used by the Assyrians and the Greeks (the joint being horizontal instead of radiating as in Gothic times) and the semicircular arch was a very marked feature of Roman work. But it was not until the fourth century of our era that a transition took place that led to the gradual, though ultimately complete, abandonment of classical forms, both as regards design and construction. Strange to say, that, whereas architecture is the outgrowth of man's necessity to erect for himself a suitable place of shelter and abode, religion has always been the chief factor of its development. Among ancient examples, indeed, there are few remains that are not either wholly or to some extent ecclesiastical edifices. Of palaces even there are few remains, and of defensive works fewer still; while, until we come to the Roman period, we have no examples whatever of civil architecture. And if more attention has been given in medieval and modern times to the treatment of our domestic and civil buildings, it is none the less true that the greatest amount of talent has been bestowed and the largest amount of money lavished upon our cathedrals and churches. So much has this been the case, throughout the whole history of architecture that the features which have dominated in the ecclesiastical buildings of any age, have been transferred, in a modified degree, to all other buildings of that time. But, it is only fair to say that, so far as can be judged from the few domestic remains of the ancients. there has been much greater diversity of design in the treatment of buildings of a non-religious character since the days of the Romans than there was anterior to them. The same feeling, however, that influenced the nations of antiquity to produce their mighty and glorious temples, was the motive power in the early Christian centuries that brought about the transition from the Roman to the Romanesque in western, and the Byzantine in eastern Europe, and that led ultimately to the Pointed Style becoming par excellence the Christian style of architecture.

Until the fourth century it was not safe for a man to be known to be a Christian. The new religion had to be propagated in secret. Caves, tombs, catacombs, anywhere away from the haunts of men were the places selected for the meetings of the early Christians. And it was only after Rome had tried ten times "to extirpate the vipers' that the Emperor Constantine embraced Christianity, and not only gave freedom to the Christians to worship according to the new faith, but extended to them the protection of the very power that had formerly oppressed them. Coming out of their hiding places, and without the means to erect suitable buildings for themselves, they made use of such as were already in existence. And, though these buildings had been erected for a very different purpose than for places of worship, they were found so admirably suitable in this emergency, that, with slight modifications, they became the type of the cathedrals and churches from that day to this. The <building>Roman Basilica </building>was originally intended to serve for a variety of purposes. It was a business exchange or mart, a court of justice, a fashionable promenade, and a general meeting place for all and sundry. In plan it was oblong, and generally divided into three spaces by two rows of columns running longitudinally, the central space being wider than the other two. The entrances were at one end of the building, and at the other end was the judges' tribunal. It was in these buildings that the first public assemblies of Christians took place, and it will be at once apparent to everyone that the plan of the Basilica, having been found so convenient and suitable, rooted itself in their minds so firmly, that, in the main, it was adopted as the plan for the churches which were subsequently erected.

But though there has been practically no change in the general features of the plan, except what is due to more or less elaboration in aisles, apses or other arrangements, the design and construction were from the first subjected to modifications, and a departure from the original having been made, the gap was gradually widened until an entire separation was effected, and a new style invented. The initial tendency of the transitional work was towards the elongation of the vertical lines. And herein lies the most striking characteristic difference between the styles of architecture before the fourth century, and those which have come into existence since that time. The columns were attenuated so that the relation of diameter to height was entirely severed, although for a time the details of capitals and bases underwent little or no change. Then the desire to obtain height necessitated the abandonment of flat ceilings, and vaulting was substituted. The Roman entablature, which, in the earlier Romanesque buildings, had been carried square across the capitals of the columns, disappeared in the

later work; and the semi-circular arch, though with classical details, took its place.

While this was proceeding in western Europe, Constantine, having removed his seat of government to Byzantine, was busily endeavoring to make his new capital surpass the old one in magnificence. He erected many buildings for a variety of purposes, in the execution of which artists from all parts of the world, but especially from Greece, were engaged. The essential features of Byzantine architecture did not differ materially from the Romanesque, but in detail and decoration there was greater refinement and variety. But that for which the architects of eastern Europe were chiefly distinguished was their invention and use of the cupola or dome. This was not only a striking departure from the practice of their western brethren but a most valuable and imposing addition to their buildings, both externally and internally. It opened up almost endless possibilities, and it has been taken advantage of and developed throughout the succeeding centuries.

<person>Justinian</person> was even a greater builder than <person>Constantine</person>, whom he succeeded; but with the exception of clothing his buildings with greater elaboration of detail, and more costly materials, and an almost Asiatic gorgeousness, he did not carry the salient points of the Byzantine style of architecture any further than his predecessor.

Rome had by this time been overrun by the Goths from the north of Europe, and had suffered the fate which generally goes hand in hand with conquest, in having most of its moveable art treasures removed, and many that would otherwise have remained to this day, destroyed. But the savage invaders were in time brought under the influence of Christianity, and out of the general chaos a purer, more perfect, and more distinct style of architecture than any that had existed since the last days of the Romans, grew up and spread over nearly the whole of Europe.

For a time the semi-circular arch was continued, but the mouldings and other details by which it was enriched had clean cut the connection with classical precedents. In some respects the massiveness and solidity of the buildings of this time remind us of the work of Egypt and early Greece. It seemed as if the builders had returned to the first principles, and. for lack of more scientific knowledge of construction, were determined to make their building safe by an abundant use of material. But apart from this there is a sturdiness and force apparent everywhere in the general design. This is hardly to be wondered at when we consider the character of the Northmen or Normans who took the lead in this new phase of architecture. They were a hardy fighting race, and probably associated with all their buildings the idea of defence in addition to that for which it was erected. The plan of the Basilica, which has been referred to, had been slightly modified by the Romanesque and Byzantine builders. They had given greater prominence to the place of the judge, so that it became the apse of their churches; and they had taken down the side walls for a certain distance from the apse and extended their buildings in a lateral direction therefrom, and so formed the transepts. It was at the intersection of the transepts and nave that the Byzantine architects constructed their domes. At the same points on the plan the Normans carried up a square tower. It was not an uncommon adjunct to a basilica to emphasize the entrance end of the building by the erection of towers. These were also incorporated into Norman work. But though, in a general sense, the plan remained unchanged, the whole character and detail of the buildings were simpler and bolder than the classical original, and more homogeneity of growth from one part of the building to another.

But the tendency towards verticality soon led to the change from the semicircular to the pointed arch, and this then became the characteristic feature of the style. As is well known the name "Gothic as applied to architecture was at first a name of opprobium, and the style is better described by the name "Pointed Architecture' than by any other. Various designations are applied to this style, but as they refer more to dates, and localities, and reigns of monarchs, than to any inherent difference in the style itself, it is unnecessary to refer to them here. The one great characteristic which runs through the whole work in this style is verticality. The columns are in most instances of immense height as compared with their diameter and of a great variety of kinds: circular, square, octagonal, clustered, and so on. Neither was there any rule for striking the arcs which formed the arch, it was enough that it was pointed.

With the change to the general adoption of the pointed arch, however. came also much greater refinement of detail and elegance of construction. The vaulted roofs with their innumerable intersecting ribs were worked out with the greatest skill and mathematical precision: and the decoration was chaste, simple and effective. The somewhat squat looking towers of the Norman period gave place to most graceful towers and spires rising to immense heights, and the openings. which at first had been small, giving a somewhat dismal light to the interior of the buildings, were gradually enlarged, until it may be said that the entire space between the buttresses was occupied by windows.

With the invention of painted glass a great leap was taken in the matter of ecclesiastical decoration, and, if the kind of glass that is used in a building is sometimes considered a matter of little importance, it had a mighty influence on the development of the Pointed Style in the middle ages. Some writers have gone so far as to say that, next to the necessity that may have existed for having churches, the buildings were designed as frames to receive painted glass windows; and in those days, when the masses were wholly uneducated, they served an excellent purpose, in addition to the great charm they added to the entire composition. The mural decorations of the ancients, though executed in the costliest materials, are altogether eclipsed by the glass paintings of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. But in addition to their intrinsic beauty they were highly educational, in so far as the wonderful story of Christianity was made the very medium through which the light was admitted to their church buildings.

With regard to the buildings of a non-religious character that belong to the Pointed Style, it is. hardly necessary to speak at any length. As has already been suggested, there are more examples of this class of structure, treated with greater variety and appropriateness for their manifold purposes, belonging to this style of architecture, than to any other known to us. But the leading characteristics of the style are apparent in a greater or lesser degree in them all. The purposes for which such buildings were erected suggested such treatment at the hands of architects as was necessary. At the same time it must be said of them, that the religious feeling was always more powerful in drawing out the noblest thoughts in artists in this, as in all other lines, and so we find the highest points of excellence in architecture attained by the ecclesiastical edifices, the buildings for other purposes being in every case secondary to them.

After the fifteenth century the spirit of architecture seems to have taken wings and fled. For though there have been many and great buildings erected since that time there has not been anything that can be properly designated as a new style of architecture. And in these papers nothing has been said of Indian, Chinese or Mexican architecture, for the simple reason that the styles of those countries, however beautiful in themselves, do not directly affect us.



CORRECTION, -- In last paper of above series. page 120 of CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, 9th line from close of article, for "From first to last experience," &c., read "From first to last extravagance was the order of the day Rome,"

