<doctype type="text">November, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	119

<article title=" DECORATION AND FURNITURE " author="">

DECORATION AND FURNITURE

MANUFACTURED AND REAL ART.

<article title=" MANUFACTURED AND REAL ART " author="">

We have heard a good deal about artistic craftmanship, as if it was our duty to invent certain trades for the benefit and pleasure of artists; without for one moment believing that art may be found in every trade, if it be only honestly exercised, and the materials honestly used. For at least 40 years we have been encouraging what we may term "manufactured art," or importing some foreign style; trying to make our furniture, our fabrics and textiles, our metal work, and other things "artistic," to impart to them certain plastic qualities of form and grace and of harmonious colour without seeing or even suspecting that all this effort is thrown away; that, in fact, we cannot force our

"art" notions on things or on materials, but that whatever good or beauty and grace an article possesses must be a spontaneous growth out of the material and condition of workmanship. Cultivated people are beginning to turn with well merited disgust from so-called "revivals" and "art" furniture, "aesthetic" carpets and fabrics, "mediaeval" brasswork "Queen Anne" or "Jacobean" sideboards and cabinets, chairs and tables, "Japanese" " ware, "Empire" decorations, and a variety of other prefixed adjectives of this sort; they begin to see that there is nothing honest about a kind of manufacture which has no claims to be called either Queen Anne or Empire, or by any other title except that it has been made to imitate work of those periods — descriptive titles that have only a meaning in the catalogues of Wardour street or Tottenham Court road.

When will the people learn that we must clothe modern ideas in modern dress? When will they see the absurdity of slavishly imitating old furniture, woodwork, or copying old Persian tiles or the "Book of Kells" for needlework and embroidery? The same desire to make our new work like the old is observed in the copying of old plaster or stone relief in modern compositions for wall and ceilings, or oak carvings in materials which they have no affinity for, to sympathy with, whatever. We have nature open to us as well as the ancients had; we have our own materials to work with, our own requirements, as well as they had. Why do we not make the same use of them as our ancestors? The question awaits an answer. Contrast for a moment the woodwork or furniture on the 16th or 17th centuries with a piece of vulgarised shop work. In the former we observe  conversation of the material which was used with meaning and intention; the ornament was an interpretation of nature in sympathy with the material, whether wood or plaster. The workman started with an idea, instead of borrowing one from some ancient source; his motif was derived from his own conception. For practical examples of the contrast, let us compare the woodwork of some old hall in Cheshire or Warwickshire, or a 17th century cabinet at the South Kensington Museum, with a piece of modern workmanship of the Tottenham Court road class, and we at once perceive the differences. In the former there is no meaningless repetition in the modes of framing or ornamentation.

We must look to the practical working of the trades for improvement. If a material or a piece of workmanship is susceptible of art, it can only exhibit it by a close observance of its peculiarities, or by the method employed in converting it. Practical design as it is taught in our art schools consists merely in making designs on paper according to certain conditions, whereas it can only be developed by a close study of the material. Take, for instance, carpet design. The success of the pattern depends on the designer's knowledge of the fabric, How many tints must be used to produce a gradation of colour?

---as every patch of colour pattern must be defined in the and be thought of like the tesserae of a mosaic. It also depends on the number of colours, the " "planting" or dividing the bands of colour or frames, to produce a given design, and the repeats. The designer may make a beautiful arrangement of pattern and colour; but if it does not fulfil the technical conditions it is useless. For these reasons it is better to encourage the working out of those designs which can be most naturally effected, to avoid any complicated and strained efforts, and mainly that the limitations or restrictions imposed by the fabric should be observed.

These rules cannot bc followed when an endeavor is made to produce anything novel or some new style for the market. There is a ceaseless demand made by some manufacturers for a new style or pattern, knowing the public craving for novelties. It goes on year by year. New carpet and wall-hangings designs; some new furniture or decoration "craze," like Japanese or bamboo; new fenders or fire-irons, stoves and overmantels are among the objects that have to be invented or designed to meet a fashion, and however exotic the taste or unappropriate the style, the order is obeyed. Of course, it goes by that elastic word of the manufacturer, "artistic," though its very nature is extremely inartistic — there is not the faintest indication that the so-called artistic qualities are an outcome of the workmanship or the material; rather they have been concealed or smothered with ornament or what passes for style. To take as an example the Louis XIV decorative furniture, known as Boule decoration. This kind of workmanship was carried Co perfection by a few artists and craftsmen, of whom the leading one was Andre Charles Boule. It is a veneer or tortoiseshell and brass, with angle mounts, lines of mouldings, claws, feet, and other ornamentation; but the beauty of this kind of incrustation arose from the skill and taste of the art workmen engaged, and cannot be manufactured to order as many sorts of modern decoration are. Then there is no effort no attempt to do something fresh for novelty's sake. The artistic furniture of France a hundred years ago, or the earlier schools of Italy and Flanders, was a branch of workmanship perfected by degrees; studios and workshops were formed of craftsmen who gave themselves up to the work. The art in the old cabinet and bureau was slowly and spontaneously developed. In point of time we had first the chest as a receptable for documents and articles; the fronts of these were panelled and carved next the chest was placed on legs forming two stages, and we had the cabinet or sideboard. Besides being carved, the fronts have hinged flaps, and the interior is divided into drawers or recesses. The decoration grew as slowly; first carving, then ornamental hinges of metal next incrustation of precious woods, ivory, or metal, the supports ornamented with brass mounts. In this way the chest grew into the ornamental cabinet; each step suggested itself to the craftsmen in a natural way.

The art was then hereditary; the crafts or guilds were the guardians of traditional skill in their particular trades, thus insuring that truly honest, national character which distinguished all workmanship during the 16th and 17th centuries. This traditional skill is seen in the delicate rnouldings and turnings, the quiet inlays of wood and ivory. The craftsman, who was a master of woodwork, went patiently but boldly to work, and was content with plainness until he could see a way to develop or ornament a feature. An authority on woodwork has said that the "best present day example of furniture is the deal table of the farmhouse or cottage," where modern vulgarisation has not entered. He is right, because it is a plain, straight-forward piece of framing, solid and well put together; to make it artistic is to give it pleasing proportions. If it is a parlour or sitting room table, the legs may be partly turned, with rails tenoned into them, and the edge of the table moulded. But to make it

"artistic" according to the modern sense would be to make it as light in its framing as possible; to make the legs like turned brush-handles, or to stick on a few carved trusses under the top. In the framed carpenter's work of the 16th century we see means the most simple adopted — the construction and form and ornament, if any, appear to be the traditional method of the craft; but its very construction was pleasing, and at one with the ornament, which may be a simple incised ornament or geometrical device on the panel, and delicate members moulded and stopped on the rails and stiles.

What we have said about certain manufactured goods and furniture is equally true of the architectural crafts. There has been a great deal too much forcing, trying to produce ornament by extraneous means. All kinds of American and other inventions have been introduced to turn out ornamental woodwork but it is not artistic, because it did not spring naturally from those simple conditions which lie at the foundation of all good architecture. For instance, the processes of producing ornament by embossing wood or of burning away certain portions are not those which now commend themselves to us. The chisel, moulding machine, and carver's tool, like the operation of framing, appeal to our reason as the natural processes of conversion. These processes admit only a certain kind of decoration, moulding the stiles and rails, and carving or incising the panels. Stone and brick and metal and plaster have each its own methods of conversion, its own modes of decoration, and if we try to invent any other the work at once loses the characteristic of being artistic. Between modern and ancient art, then, there is this difference — one is a meretricious, superadded quality, the manufacture of art; the latter a spontaneous development from material and skill. Building News.

