<doctype type="text">110                           THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT  AND	BUILDER.	October, 1893



simply produce the tariff to show that your charges were not too high. This would be of great use to citizens and to the general public. Now, I think my friend, Mr. Roy, will concede that I understand this question, and that I am not against the architects. I have some arguments in favor of the sanctioning of the tariff; and I may say the only argument, fit is an argument at all against it, is that if the tariff is too high, the House will not bear us out in sanctioning it, but perhaps take upon itself to make a tariff or to abolish all tariffs in the Province of Quebec. You understand from what I am saying that this question is one of importance not only to architects but also to the Government and the country at large. It is a matter which deserves to be discussed from every point of view. Looking at it in this way, you will see why it is that tip to the present the government has not seen its way to sanctioning this tariff. I know you will believe me when I say it, that this is the reason why the tariff of the architects has not been adopted so far.

Mr. Roy: you have been thinking too long.

Mr. Casgrain: That may be, but, on the other hand, you may rest assured that if we had not reason to fear that we might be checked by the House, it would be carried through. The House of course represents the Province, and until you convince the people of this Province that your tariff is what it should be, you will not be able to get it sanctioned by the Government or any Government which may come after us. It will be practically impossible, because we are subject to the rulings of the House, and I say now unless your tariff is reasonable, — and I think the one laid before us now is reasonable — and that the House is convinced that it is reasonable, it will not carry. I can say that you are greatly mistaken if you think that in the Government as it stands to-day you have any men who are against the tariff. If you will allow us to take our own time, if you will allow us to convince those who are not our supporters, I think you will achieve your end, and in a short time you will be able to applaud us even more enthusiastically than you have done to-night, although, 1 must say, you have received us with all due honors. But this, perhaps is drawing away from the subject upon which I began to speak.

I will now move that this toast be drank with all honors, and I hope and trust that your Association will always be found in the vanguard of progress, and that within a very short time you will achieve all the ends which you have in view, and as an individual, I hope your tariff will within a brief period of time be sanctioned by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.

Mr. Hutchison, Secretary of the Association, in response to this toast, said

Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, our Association is vet a young Association. It is only a few years since we appeared before the Legislature of this Province to ask for an act of incorporation. Now, I take it that in asking for such an act there were two objects in view, one of a professional or personal character, the other of a public character. Let us take the first one. It was in the interest of individual members of the profession scattered in the cities of Montreal and Quebec, scarcely knowing one another and having no interests in common, that they should by means of this association be brought into closer relations with one another. I think that object has certainly been accomplished in a very great degree. Since the formation of this association all the architects of Montreal have become well acquainted with one another as well as with the members from Quebec, who, before the passing of this act, were almost unknown to them. It has also had the effect of bringing closer to us the Association of Ontario, composed of men whom we did not know at all professionally.

Probably the second object under the personal and professional head might be this tariff that we have heard so much about to-night. I know that with a great many members the ratification of the tariff which has been prepared and submitted to the Government seems to be considered of very prime importance. Now, while it is important, I can hardly admit myself that it is of the importance with which some seem to invest

it.	Practically, a similar tariff has heretofore been in operation, though not legalized. It is the same tariff that applies in every country that I know where a tariff exists. France, England, British Columbia, Ontario have practically the same tariff as the one we have presented to the Government for ratification.

I think our tariff differs somewhat from the other tariffs referred to to-night. Take, for instance, that of the legal profession. If 1 understand it, the lawyer is bound to charge according to the tariff. Now, in our project it is distinctly provided that the tariff be not binding upon architects. An architect may make any other arrangement he pleases. It is simply a legal protection, so that when a question of charges arises in court we will be in a position to establish that the fees charged are legal. That is about all the good it will be to the profession

From remarks which I have sometimes heard from some of our members, I judge that some supposed that when the Association of Architects was formed they were to get material benefit or profit from it. That is altogether wide of the mark. It never entered into my head, and I do not think it entered into the minds of any of the promoters of the association that the mere fact of the existence of an association such as we have got should be of any material benefit. I for one should oppose anything like trying to bring every man to the same level. I hope

there is no one of our members who imagines that any act is going to bring the low high or the high to the low. Therefore, if the association has not met the expectations of some in this respect, I do not think it is any fault of the association.

Now, Mr. Chairman, in regard to the second object that we had in asking for an act of incorporation, the public interest. The art of building has become such a complicated affair now-a-days, that the structures that are being erected are of such a nature that a person to be a properly qualified architect requires a knowledge covering a very wide field in the sciences and arts. It requires a great deal of skill to be a good architect; and going before the legislature and getting this act was to prevent the public being imposed upon by parties who are not properly qualified. From this point of view it is certainly of much more interest to the public than to us of the profession. Now-a-days an architect requires not only artistic training for his calling, but he also requires a scientific training. The artistic and the scientific should overlap. There is so much steel and iron entering into our buildings that an architect requires a knowledge of the quality, strength and resisting power of these materials, which thirty years ago would not have been thought of. There is also so much to be known about hygiene that an architect requires to be posted on sanitary engineering. Electricity is making such advances, and is coming into such general use, that an architect must be able to wire a building and must know how to put electric plant in. Of course he may call in engineers to assist in all this but at the same time he will be in a much better position if he be qualified to direct these works himself. The education of thirty years ago is nowhere to-day. But leaving aside all that, architects are called upon to design so many different sorts of buildings, such as mills and that sort of thing, that a familiarity with machinery is of the utmost importance in order to enable them to do their work satisfactorily. I find in the course of my professional work that I am called upon to build milsl, and I have to have as much knowledge of the laying out of machinery as a millwright. As a guarantee to the public who have to employ architects we should have men properly qualified. Our act of incorporation provides that all persons who enter the profession after the passing of the act should previously pass an examination to show that they are properly qualified for the profession. Before entering the profession a young man has to show that lie has had sufficient preliminary training. This has been faithfully carried out. In fixing the standard for the final examinations a very high standard has been fixed; I hope it will become still higher, and so far only four men have been able to reach it. As I have already said, in the interests of the public it is necessary that we should have properly qualified men; and one deficiency which still remains in our system is the lack of means of training aspirants to the profession. We have so far 110 school or means of giving men wishing to follow this profession a proper training; and as I have before advocated, I think it is one of the essential things in connection with our association to devise some means by which the necessary education can be obtained. It is true we have already made representations to McGill College; and it has often been talked about that Laval University should establish a chair. McGill University', through the munificence of some gentlemen of Montreal, has one of the best scientifically equipped colleges in America, and it lacks very little to make it most efficient for the special training required for our work. But while Laval and McGill might establish  chairs of architecture, the requirements would not altogether be met. There will always be a great number of young men who will enter the profession by entering architects' offices as students; and to give these young men the proper instruction it will be necessary to have lectures given either in connection with the universities or in connection with our association itself. I think most of the gentlemen present know that I have tried hard during the last two winters to establish classes for the instruction of our young men. They have not, however, met with the success that I had hoped for them; but I trust that by sticking at the work we will yet get it established on a good basis. It should be compulsory on every young man entering an office to attend a course of lectures such as I have referred to. He will then follow certain well laid down lines, and when he comes to the end of the course he will be able to pass his final examination to his own satisfaction and to that of the Board of Examiners, and will go forth fully prepared to carry on his professional work. The public, in whose interest, I contend, this act was passed, will feel that they then have a man upon whom they can depend.

There is one thing that I think is more important than the tariff, and I hope the Government will take it into consideration. It is the removal of one word from that act of incorporation. When passing that act of incorporation, the Legislature put the word "registered" in front of the word "architect". We want that word erased, and just have it left simply architect. As it is now any person can practice the profession of an architect. The inserting of that word has left the door so wide open that anybody can come in. Now, I may inform the members of the Government here to-night that there is a strong objection to this word "registered," and that the word "architect" is strong enough without being qualified in this way.

have to thank you, gentlemen, for your kind attention.

After Mr. Berlinguet and Mr. Roy had made some further remarks on the tariff question, Mr. Lavasseur, of L'Evenement

