<doctype type="text">

THE ART OF' SUCCESSFUL ADVERTISING. <article title=" THE ART OF SUCCESSFUL ADVERTISING " author="Henrichs, E. H.">

BY ERNEST H. HEINRICHS.

Advertising has become generally recognized as a necessary and important adjunct to every business, trade, profession and mercantile or commercial enterprise. '1 he cobbler advertises his handiwork on the window-ledge; the grocer pots his best stock of vegetables on the sidewalk; the clothier, the dry-goods man and the furniture dealer fill the pages of the newspapers; the actor seeks to attract the attention of the public in flaming posters, and the manufacturer advertises his specialties in the trade papers and magazines. The time worn axiom that good goods do not need advertising is now relegated into the deepest recesses of the business man's vault containing memories of the past, and is brought out only to serve as a dampened upon a two persevering advertising solicitor. In this age of keen competition, it is not likely that any man will have a purchaser for his goods simply because they have the characteristic of excellence. He must promulgate their distinctive advantages or their superiority.

To do this successfully, he must advertise, There are as many ways of advertising as there are roads leading to Rome, and the question is how to find the right one,

To the writer it seems that the first point to he considered is, how much money will the capital of the business to be advertised permit to bc used for this purpose? Ibis point, once disposed of, will immediately suggest another one,—how may this sum he expended to the best advantage, or, how can the business he advertised most effectually with this stipulated sum,

The thorough study of these points is of the utmost importance. There must lie methods pursued in the manner of advertising, if it is to he profit— able, else there will he absolute failure. One who decides to embark in any enterprise invariably makes it his first business to find out how much it will cost him to make a start. The same principle applies to advertising. It is a business in itself, the management of which requires the greatest care and attention,

Some people say that they give the papers -an advertisement occasionally just to get on the good side of them ; others, that they give some man from the papers an advertisement, because he is a "jelly, good fellow." In fact, one gentleman remarked to the writer some time ago that ''there is a good (teal of sentiment connected with advertising I -' Now there is much truth in what this gentleman said, and more is the pity. It is this kind of advertising which is dangerous, inasmuch as it reflects upon advertising as a legitimate business because it deteriorates to a form of bribery, and it disheartens as well as disgusts both the reputable publisher and the homiest advertiser,

Having decided how much money may he spent in advertising, the next question is, how and where is it to be done? 'to settle this question is very difficult, for the reason that the mediums for advertising arc legion. Many old advertisers believe that advertising by circular letter affords the surest and best way to reach a taste-over, They argue that if they send out a stamped envelope with a type-written page or two oh matter inside, the recipient will surely read these pages, Then there are others, who are not particular about having the matter even type-written ; they are satisfied to get up an elegant advertisement, have a printer strike oft as many copies as they have customers on their hooks, and then they send these circulars to their customers, Again, there are those who now and again get up a catalogue, in which are set forth descriptions in general and in detail of everything they sell, and they send these catalogues wherever they hope to catch a probable put-chaser. Then there are firms who rely entirely upon their agents and representatives to advertise their goods by word of mouth. Most advertisers, however, consider all these methods auxiliary; they help a little, but they do not do much good alone. It may he safely asserted that newspapers, magazines, and trade papers, are now recognized as the standard advertising mediums,

'the object of advertising is to make certain statements known to the public at large, Hence the more people see the advertisement the more thoroughly (foes it fulfil its mission. Of course this opinion may he questioned by the advertiser of specialties, who desires to reach a certain class of people only, but this statement is meant to apply to advertising in general, though it would require merely a slight modification to apply to all cases, Nevertheless, one fact, borne out by the most successful advertisers in America and in Europe, is that what is broadly understood by newspaper advertising is the best and cheapest advertising that can he had. The term

newspaper" includes of course periodicals of every class.

In choosing a publication some people have very peculiar ideas; if they see a paper with a large number of advertising pages, they take it for granted that an advertisement in such a paper means money thrown away, because the advertisement will he crowded out of sight. This is a mistake. The best papers, as a rule, have the largest amount of advertising ; hence they must he the best advertising mediums. The best papers are apt to he the most widely read, so that advertisements in them must of necessity become widely circulated, which is the great object of advertising. To this reasoning it may he replied that it does not follow, that because an advertisement is circulated among ten thousand people, ten thousand people will read it. Certainly not, but an advertisement circulated among ten thousand people stands a better chance of being read ten thousand times than an advertisement circulated among only five thousand people. Apart from this deduction of simple logic it must not he forgotten that advertisements are read with as much interest as any other portion of a newspaper. This may not always have been so, but it is nevertheless true to-day. It may he that the busy man will carelessly pass over the advertising columns of the daily newspaper, but the housewife will read them twice and thus make up for his neglect. Bitt take the popular magazines of to-day, the advertising pages of which are tinily remarkable, not alone in their appearance, but also as regards their contents. Does any one dare to assert that an advertisement placed anywhere in these pages is lost investment? The advertising pages of these periodicals represent from month to month the most  striking reflection of the commercial, the industrial, and the financial, as well as the intellectual, progress of this country, and the intelligent readers of these publications are just as much interested in the perusal of the advertising pages as of the essays, stories and other features,

A business man, having decided to advertise, and having set apart a certain sum for this should go to that publication which is read by the largest number oh people interested in his business, which most probably will he that publication which has the most advertisements and pays the most attention to the manner of setting up and arranging the advertisement pages.

The advertising rates in the best publications are very low. Many people, and even some advertisers of experience, will doubt this statement, but that does not detract from its correctness The trouble it we expect too much from an advertisement. It must not he supposed that a single advertisement, for which perhaps $50 has been paid, is going to fill a store with customers for a year to come thus bringing a profit on the investment of probably ten hundred per cent. Most people are satisfied, if they make one hundred per cent, on their invested capital, and everybody should commend them for their modesty. Why, then, should a larger profit lie expected from an advertisement than from any other investment?

Advertising once commenced must he kept up,. and if conducted with the same thoughtfulness, the same care, and the same business methods exercised in any other enterprise, an advertisement will always prove a profitable  investment.

There is one other feature connected with the business of advertising, which although the writer has so far not made mention of it, is nevertheless of no less importance than the others. This is the manner of composing air advertisement. in is impossible to form any set of standard rules as a guide for the composition of advertisements except its so far as that they should in all eases he so worded that they will at once attract attention and lie read. To he brief, concise, clear, and to the point in writing an advertisement is undoubtedly commendable, and a plain statement is always more liable to carry weight with the reader than a long string of ambiguous phrases. which have no defined meaning w lien analyzed. —Engineering Magazine.





HOW TO USE CEMENT.

The following general rules referring to the practical use of cement are reprinted from the National Building Register:

QUALITY OF SAND—The sand should be clean, sharp and coarse. When the sand is mixed with loam the mortar will set comparatively slow, and the work will he comparatively weak. Fine sand, and especially water-worn sand, delays the setting of the cement, and deteriorates strength. Damp saud should be mixed thoroughly and uniformly together, when both are dry, and no water should be applied until immediately before the mortar is wanted for use.

PROPORTION OF SAND—The larger the proportion of cement the stronger the work, One part of good cement to two parts sand is allowable for ordinary work ; but for cisterns, cellars, and work requiring special care half and half is the better proportion. For floors, the cement should be increased toward the surface.

WATER IN CONCRETE Use no more water in cement than absolutely necessary. Cement requires but a very small quantity of water in crystallizing. Merely dampening the material gives the best results. Any water in excess necessarily evaporates and leaves the hardened cement comparatively weak and porous 

CONCRETE IN WATER—Whenever concrete is used tinder water, care must be taken that the water is still. So say all English and American authorities. In laying cellar floors, or constructing cisterns or similar work, cat-c must he taken to avoid pressure of exterior water. Cement will not crystallize when disturbed by the force of currents, or pressure of water, but will resist currents and pressure after hardening only. In still water good cement will harden quicker than in air, and when kept in water will be stronger than when kept in air. Cements which harden especially quick in air are usually slow or worthless in water.

How TO PUT DOWN CONCRETE—When strong work is wanted, for cellar floors and all similar work, the concrete should he dampened and tamped down to place, with the back of a spade, or better, with the end of a plank or rammer then finished off with a trowel, thus leveling and compacting the work Only persons ignorant of the business will lay a floor or walk with soft cement mortar. All artificial stone is made in a similar way to that described, and, when set, is strong and had as stone.

DELAY IN USE Do not permit the mortar to exhaust its setting properties by delaying its use when ready. Inferior cements only will remain standing in the mortar-bed any length of time without serious injury.

STONE AND BRICK WORK—In buildings constructed of stone or brick, the best protection front dampness and decay, and also from the danger of cyclones, is a mortar of cement and coarse sand. The extra cost is inconsiderable, and the increased value of the structure very great. Chimneys laid in this manner never blow down, and cellars whose foundations are thus laid are always s free from atmospheric moisture. Cement may also be mixed with lime mortar for plastering and other purposes, to great advantage.

EFFECT OF FROST AND COLD—At a temperature less than 60 degrees Fahrenheit, all good cement sets slowly, though surely, but if allowed to freeze its value is seriously impaired. In cold weather or cold water do not fear to wait for your concrete to crystallize

DAMAGE FROM MOISTURE Good cement is not injured by age, if carefully preserved from moisture. Lumps in bags or barrels of cement are caused by exposure to moisture, They prove the originally good quality of the content.





LEGAL DECISIONS.

Mr. Justice Ouimet, of Montreal, in the case of Beaulieu vs. Brouillet, decided a point of much interest to architects The action was taken to recover an amount alleged to he due under a written buildings contract for certain work done, and an additional sum for extras. The plaintiff had endeavored to produce evidence to establish the value of these extras but the defendant objected, and the objection has been maintained. It is held that an architect can only claim for work done under written contract, and in the absence of a written agreement or an admission under oath by the person for whom the work was done as to the value of the extra work, no claim can be entertained. In the present case the plaintiff had neglected to have a written agreement drawn up before commencing the extra work.

