<doctype type="text">



TORONTO ESPLANADE IMPROVEMENT.

<article title=" TORONTO ESPLANADE IMPROVEMENT " author="">

MR. Sankey's report to the City Engineer contains his plan for laying out the new water front on the bay, so as to provide public wharves that will give a favorable impression to visitors who enter Toronto first by this way; to arrange for heavy traffic on Lake Street and reserve sites for commercial buildings on the landward side of it; to bring street car accommodation by coverhead lines in connection with the ferries and lake steamers; and lastly, as the wharf accommodation provided is considerably more than double that now in use, to reserve for the public a large waterfront square surrounded on three sides by water.

The works proposed occupy the space from the Yonge Street wharf to the new pier of the Argonaut Rowing Club—practically from Yonge Street to York Street. There will be a new Yonge Street wharf more than three times the size of the present one. The new wharf will more properly speaking be a sold pier cribbed only on the outside and filled in firmly with earth. The front will be long enough to allow the longest lake steamer to tie without obstructing the passage of other vessels to and from the sides, which will be of somewhat greater length than the front. The pier will thus form a square of solid earth with a wharf all round. The space reserved for wharf room is 50 feet

— 2O feet for a gangway and 30 feet for wharf buildings. Behind the wharf building there will be a 40 feet road all around, leaving a central block, round which the road passes, which will be well adapted for a fruit market and cold storage warehouse. The ferry pier will be at the foot of York street and will have besides landings for the ferries, accommodation for steamers running in connection with the railways. The remaining space, about half the distance between Bay and York streets, will be occupied by what Mr. Sankey calls the "Harbour Square." This will be formed in the same way as the Yonge street wharf by external cribbing filled in with earth and will form an area, planted we may presume with trees, about 400 feet wide and running out for about the same distance or a little further into the bay.

To bring the public into communication with the water front it is proposed to form a loop of the street railway between York and Yonge streets bringing the lines down by inclined bridges from the level of Front street to that of Lake street.

In pointing out that the expense of constructing the what yes and harbour square will be small, Mr. Sankey says: "It should not be more than the cost of the necessary cribbing there is always a demand for a dumping ground near the centre of the city, and all the filling necessary can be got for nothing." It is however necessary that in constituting these works dumping grounds for the city, some discrimination should be used as to the nature of the material dumped. It will be of little use to provide the Harbour Square as a breathing ground for the people if its soil reeks pestilence. The filling in that has been going on all summer in front of the Union Station has been composed to a great extent of what it is no exaggeration to call garbage. The collection of tin cans, broken pots, vegetable tops, spoiled fruit, etc., which was carted to this spot showed it to be the sweepings of the city lanes. To cover it with a layer of earth made it little less offensive than before. The animal life that is generated from decay is said to be indifferent to burial, and it is probable that unless steps are taken at the beginning to prevent filling in the new works with anything but clean stuff we may expect the Harbour Square to be a resort more favorable to microbes of disease than to human beings.



ILLUSTRATIONS.



POST OFFICE, HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.



THE building, which is constructed of freestone on a granite base, stands in a square opposite the Provincial Buildings. The exterior appearance is very satisfactory, but the interior effect and accommodation are less so. The architect of the building was Mr. David Sterling, of Halifax.



DETAILS FOR SMALL TOWN HOUSE.

<article title=" DETAILS FOR SMALL TOWN HOUSE " author="">

These details are to accompany the design for a small town house published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for September.

SUMMER RESIDENCE FOR MR. A. W. OGILVIE, MONTREAL. —



A. C. HUTCHISON, ARCHITECT.



OTTAWA. -- w. E. DORAN, ARCHITECT.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

[Readers are invited to ask through this department for any information which they may require on lines consistent with the objects of the paper. Every effort will be made to furnish satisfactory answers to all such inquiries. Readers are requested to supply information which would assist us in our replies. The names and addresses of correspondents must accompany their communications, but not necessarily for publication.]





G. E. M., Toronto writes: How many pounds would there be in a bushel of white lime just from the kiln.

ANS. — About 70 pounds.



MONTREAL. <article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

The sentiments expressed in the following extract from a letter recently addressed by Mr. L. J. A. Papineau to the Cure of the parish of Notre Dame de Bonsecours, Ottawa County, protesting against a proposal to substitute for a church in comparatively good repair an expensive edifice of more modern design, will no doubt strike a responsive chord in the breasts of many of your readers: "I have seen in Scandinavia many an old wooden church of several centuries' existence, and which are as venerated as the lead temples of marble arid mosaics in Italy. All throughout Europe they preserve all monuments, civil and religious; and the more so in proportion to their antiquity. In America, on the contrary, people's ambition is to destroy. Each generation seems desirous to pull down whatever their fathers have erected. In Canada, since a few years. it has become a mania to demolish churches and make everything new. For our rural churches there had grown a Canadian type; a tong building of boulder masonry, bound by a mortar as hard as a cement, a triangular front and steep roof, arcaded doors and windows, plain, without superfluous ornaments, the shining roofs and steeple seen from afar in the sunlight, the long and sharp steeple ascending towards heaven, crowned by the cross and the Gallic cock. Alt these old monuments of our ancestors people are now hurrying to destruction. to replace them at fabulous prices by monstrous constructions which are neither gothic nor classical, but a mass of incongruities which may be called the Jesuitical order of architecture, such as is exemplified in so many churches of Spanish America and a few modern European. An agglomeration of pinnacles and caps which, grovelling low, are neither steeple nor dome, and in place of a tympanum display immense white flourishes and ribbons of stone which resembles the contortions of serpents in place of the triangle of Jehovah or the Trinity. We have a striking example of this barbaric transformation in the unfortunate chapel of Bonsecours in Montreal—the only temple left in that city of the colonization period — that venerable temple, which has been so shamefully altered both internally and externally. 'they have destroyed the many golden sculptures that once decorated the original parish church of 1645, and replaced them by horrible grey daubs worthy of penny theatres. I will not mention the elevator to the roof exhibitions. What a caricature they have made of the holy shrine."

Mr. Porteous, who was perhaps the oldest architect in Montreal. died in this city on tire 28th August. at the advanced age of 82 years. Deceased was the designer of a large number of churches and factories. He superintended the construction and hanging of the lock gates of the Williamsburg arid Cornwall canals, having been the inventor of an improved method of hanging such gates.

In olden times it was not unusual for the building of a cathedral to occupy a period of one or several hundred years. In our times, however, we are accustomed to see great structures rise as if by magic, and but a few years are required for the rearing of mighty cities. In contrast to this haste of modern times has been the building of St. Peters Cathedral of this city, which is to be opened at Christmas. It has been under construction for a quarter of a century, not because it could not have been erected in a much shorter time, but because its progress was limited to the rate at which the necessary funds could he obtained. The building, as is generally known, is a model of St. Peter's at Rome, and is about one-third the size of the latter. The interior decorations are as yet incomplete.



HAMILTON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

The old post office building on St. James street, which I have always regarded as one of the most creditable of the public buildings of the city, is sought to be occupied by the Associated Charities or the Wentworth Historical Society. I trust the latter Society's request may be preferred, as I should dislike exceedingly to see such a building given up to the uses of a soup kitchen.

The statue of the late Sir John A. Macdonald to be erected in this city. and of which an illustration appeared in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER some months ago, is to be unveiled by the Premier of the Dominion, Sir John Thompson. early in November.

The Board of Works entered early in the year into a contract with Messrs. Robert Thompson & Co. to supply a certain quantity of lumber, at a certain price, for the use of the corporation. The Board having subsequently overdrawn its appropriation, the Mayor instructed the Street Commissioner to receive no further consignments of lumber. In consequence of this order, the contractors threaten to enter suit to compel the acceptance of the balance of material called for by the contract.

The present year has been a fairly, active one for architects and builders, and the fact that a considerable increase in the city's population is reported by the assessors may be regarded as a favorable indication for the future.

