	<doctype type="text">114	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	November, 1893



SPURIOUS HARDWARE.

<article title=" SPURIOUS HARDWARE " author="">

SOME of the leading hardware merchants of Toronto complain that duplicates of some of the more favored and expensive patterns in American hardware are being manufactured in cast iron in Toronto, and after being plated are placed on the Canadian market, represented to be the genuine article. At first appearance the spurious goods are a good copy of the genuine and can be detected only by very careful examination. To make detection still more difficult, a genuine lock is often used with a counterfeit escutcheon. A close inspection will usually reveal that the counterfeit article, while perhaps identical in color, is slightly smaller in size than the genuine. This is due to shrinkage in casting, in the process of which one of the genuine articles is used as a pattern. The genuine article is made of bronze metal, which to a considerable extent is impervious to the action of the atmosphere. The imitation is as we have said made of cast iron, and will retain its appearance at the longest only a few months. The importers of expensive American hardware claim that they should not be placed in competition with a spurious article which can be produced at a tithe of the cost of the genuine. If architects are satisfied with cheap goods they are quite willing to compete on that line, but they should not be excepted to place a genuine article in competition with one to which the same name and appearance have been given, but which is counterfeit. Architects would do well to enquire into this matter.



THE RE-ENFORCEMENT OF CONCRETE BEAMS BY TWISTED IRON FOR FIRE-PROOF FLOORS.

<article title=" THE RE-ENFORCEMENT OF CONCRETE BEAMS BY TWISTED IRON FOR FIRE-PROOF FLOORS " author="">

The reference made in the May number of the California Architect to the use of twisted iron incorporated in concrete, has called out some inquiries, says that journal, as to the nature and extent of the tests so far applied to this mode of construction. Though first introduced upon this coast but little has been published here respecting this new departure in fire-proof building.

The Museum at the Standard University was not the first structure where this method was employed, but the concrete beams supporting the heavy dome, have the longest span yet produced, forty-five feet. Another notable example is the California Academy of Sciences on Market street, where five floors covering an area of 50,000 square feet are so constructed. The span ranges as high as thirty feet, and there is also a projection of three feet of concrete over the central area, supporting an iron railing at the outer edge, and walk for visitors. The floors were estimated to carry with safety 250 pounds per square foot. One section, 15 x 22, was tested with a uniform load of 415 pounds per square feet, and the load was left on one month. The architects reported the extreme deflection at the center as only one-eighth of an inch. Contractors and workmen were distrustful at first, but their confidence became unbounded before the completion of the work. The saving over the usual mode is estimated at fifty cents per square foot.

Touching the weight of these floors, as compared with iron girders and hollow tiles, the first impression that the concrete must necessarily be much heavier, is found incorrect. For when the span is of usual length, and the required strength of moderate limit, the weight per square foot is less with the new construction. For example: with spans of fifteen to twenty feet, and a safe load of seventy-five pounds per square foot, the saving in weight is about forty per cent over iron girders and hollow tiles. With a load of 129 pounds it is some twenty per cent.

This economy is doubtless due to the fact that the bond between the twisting iron and the enveloping concrete is so perfect and continuous as to give the effect of a homeogenous beam, and that the tensile strength of the iron bar is utilized.

Ordinarily in the use of iron with concrete, the strain has been concentrated at a single point by the employment of nuts and washers. By twisting the iron before it is imbedded in the concrete the strain is diffused equally through the length of the bar while it is firmly held at all points by the enveloping mass.

An incidental advantage of the twisting is that thereby all imperfectly laminated iron is at once detected, and the defect exposed, ensuring the employment in practical use of only a high quality of iron.

In the more common forms of construction the major element

has been the iron beam, whose lower cord was exposed, necessitating additional protection below against the action of heat. By substituting the concrete beam as the chief factor, the iron used is so incorporated within the body of the stone as to be amply protected without extra cost. Moreover the iron girder is an expensive form, while the very simplest or cheapest is the flat or square bar.

The claim that cold twisting actually adds to the strength of the bar, rests upon somewhat exhaustive experiments conducted by Lieutenant F. P. Gilmore, U. S. N. (Government Inspector of Iron and Steel for war vessels under construction at San Francisco) and by the College of Mechanics of the University of California at Berkely, also at the celebrated Low Moor Iron Works, England.

Lieutenant Gilmore found that common commercial iron 1/4 inch square, being given 1 1/2 twists per lineal foot gained seventeen per cent. in tensile strength given 3 3/4 twists, twenty per cent, and six twists gained twenty-four per cent.

The best Norway Iron given six twists per foot, gained from fifty to fifty-three per cent in tensile strength.

Similar experiments at the Low Moor Iron Works 3/4 inch round it-on, showed twenty-two per cent gain for 11/2 twists per foot thirty-six per cent, with 2 1/2, and forty-one with three twists, which were as far as the experiments noted were carried.

The latter experiments conducted by the University of California gave similar results, with one important fact ascertained, namely: that a suitable interval between the twisting and the testing gave a much greater gain. Three-quarter inch iron turned down to was given six twists per lineal foot. Twisted while hot there was a small loss in tensile strength. Twisted cold and tested immediately, the gain ranged from twenty-three to forty-three per cent. Twisted cold and allowed to remain five days and then tested, the increase in tensile strength of the same quality of iron was from forty-seven to fifty-nine per cent. or an average of fifty-three per cent.

It would seem that advantage might be taken of this important augmentation of tensile strength in many places. Bridge builders, as well as workers in concrete, would do well to inform themselves fully upon this claim.

<article title=""CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER"  COMPETITION " author="">

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER"  COMPETITION.

The publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invites competitive designs for a town house and stable to cost not more than $4,500.

The house is to be placed on the east side of the street. The lot is 35 feet wide and 125 feet deep. The houses on either side are built up to within three feet of the dividing line, and are fifteen feet from the street line.

The stable should provide accommodation for one horse and accoutrements,

Access the stable and vehicles for summer and winter use. to can only be had from the front of the lot.

The house is to be heated with hot water. Arrangement of piping, location of radiators, etc., should be indicated.

Good planning from the standpoint of health, convenience and comfort, will be given first consideration in judging the designs.

Each competitor must give a concise description of his design, stating the materials proposed to be used in its construction.

Drawings must include two principal elevations, floor plans and detail of hall and stair. A perspective may be submitted at the option of the competitor.

The first premium will be $15.00; the second $5.00; the third, one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND  BUILDER.

Drawings must be made on sheets of heavy white paper or bristol board 14 X 20 inches in size, and must be drawn sufficiently coarse to allow of their being reduced to one-half the above size. Drawings must be made in firm strong lines, with pen and black ink. No color or brush work will be allowed. Each drawing must be marked with the nom de plume of its author, and the author's name, now de plume and full address, enclosed in a sealed envelope, must accompany each drawing sent in.

Drawings must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, 107 Confederation Life Building, Toronto, not later than the 2nd day of January, 1894.

The right is reserved of publishing any design sent in. All designs will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

The decision as to the respective merits of the designs submitted will be made by a committee appointed by the Architectural Guild of Toronto.

All architects practising in cities are debarred from this Competition.

