<doctype type="ad">"Among the sand- stone deserving of special mention is what is known as the Potsdam Red Sandstone. This stone has been most thoroughly tested, and has won a wide reputation for durability and its capacity to withstand the effects of strong heat and sudden cooling. It has been indorsed in a very unqualified manner by many of the leading authorities on structural material in the country."DR. WM. C. DAY,Of the Division of MiningStatistics, U.S. GeologicalSurvey. From "MineralResources of the UnitedStates," GovernmentPrinting Office, December,1892."I consider this, from the standpoint of durability, almost an ideal stone. * * * Its surface affords no foothold for growing organism. Strong as the strongest granite.*	* * Deserves even a wider recognition than it has yet received."From "Stones for Building and Decoration," byDR. GEO. P. MERRILL,of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington."The element of beauty is no less important in a building stone than strength and durability. In these three qualities this stone is certainly unrivalled."PROF. J. S. NEWBERRY,Professor of Geology, School of Mines, Columbia College.THE POTSDAM REDSANDSTONE CO.POTSDAM, N.Y.The stone produced by this Company is unequalled in beauty, strength and durability. Commended by the highest expert authority.  Used in many of the finest buildings in the United States and Canada.Prompt shipments Guaranteed	 Estimates for Stone cut from drawings and delivered free on board cars, ready to lay in the building      Stone yards at Prescott, Ontario, for Canadian work. Special attention given to estimates for cutting to be done in Canada. Stone will be set if required.SPECIALTY Random Rock-Faced Ashlar Facings, ready cut, including Rock-faced Jambs and Corners, shipped from stock, in any quantity. Apply for samples (free and prepaid to Architects only), pamphlet and prices, as above."There was no loss of weight, in repeated treatment with water containing carbonic acid gas and with sulphurous acid gas. A solution of 1 per cent. of sulphuric acid occasions a slight loss in weight, equivalent to 2-100 of 1 per cent. only. The test of freezing and thawing left the stone apparently unchanged. When heated to 1,200 degrees-1,400 degrees F. and suddenly cooled, the color was unaltered, there were no checks, and the strength of the specimen was but little impaired. * * * The Potsdam stone finds a wide market, and the demand for it is growing as its beauty, strength and durability are better known and appreciated."From "Building Stone in New York," by DR. JOHN C. SMOCK,New York State Economic Geologist."This is the best of all building materials."Prof. Thomas Egleston,Professor of Mineralogy, Columbia College."This remarkable stone has shown a resistance of more than 42,804 lbs. crushing weight, while the strongest granites will stand only 19,750, and other stones still less. The color of the Pots-dam product, is soft, light reddish. For building purposes it has no equal."Scientific A American,Oct. 29, 1892."Approximates more closely to the ideal building stone than any other that has thus far been proposed for use in this country."Dr. William H. Wahl,Sec'y	Franklin Institute, Philadelphia.