<doctype type="text">	October, 1893	CANADIAN	BUILDER.	107



the back filling as where water can get into the filling or between the filling and the wall and freeze there from the omission of weepers to run it off, and the back filling should be rendered impermeable to water and thereby to frost by covering it over with some properly laid bituminous material through which water cannot penetrate.

There are other defects to be guarded against, as the bulging out of walls of certain structures by the stress of vaults and arches where not counteracted either by a proper thickness of the masonry only the strengthening thereof by buttresses, or loading from above by adding to the height and weight, or applying iron ties to counteract the spreading tendency, and bringing the walls together by heating and thus expanding every second tie and tightening up the nuts while the other ties remain undisturbed until in turn they he heated and curtailed in length by screwing up their nuts.

Appearances must also be attended to the quoin or corner pillar of a building should not be less than that between any two adjoining openings, as when, as in the case of the Langelier block on the Grande Allee, Quebec, the door adjoins the gable wall. This defect should be corrected by widening the passage or even making a recess or a rounded corner in the adjoining room to allow of shifting the. door in a way to get an increased width of pier.

Gentlemen, there is in our human nature an element of aestheticism:

Certain proportions seem to be innate in us, planted thereby the Creator, and irrespective of any tuition of the beautiful, they are so to say, engraved on the retina and thus rendered indissoluble. Likely this is due to ratios in the human stature. We can all appreciate the true proportions. One is said to be too bulky for his height, too short, too stumpy; another too tall and slight we do not like, we cannot bear to see a waist half way down the body, of which the normal height is at two-thirds or three-fifths from the ground we stand on. Even an illiterate person or a mere child will say of a building which is top heavy that it is ungainly as of a person who is short-necked and his head resting on his shoulders. And this want of proportion of head to body is in no way better illustrated than when, in the arched or even square heading into a door or nitch or window, the impost moulding is set too high, as in the new side chapel of the Quebec Basilica where, the arched head of window being but one-fifth or thereabout of the total height, the architect should have kept down his impost by at least 4 to 5 inches below the centre of curvature to render the proportions satisfactory; and this, a fault of very common occurrence amongst architects and builders, should now that they are told of it, be strictly avoided in the future.

No one for instance likes to see a column divided in the centre, or its middle pointed at by an abutting cornice, or a plinth course, or by the head or transom of a door or gateway, or by the impost of an arched opening or by a notch of which either the top or bottom comes opposite the centre. On the contrary, if any such adjoining feature cuts the column, or abuts against it at just two-thirds the height above the base, one feels satisfied that the right proportions are observed.

Why are the reeds in the fluting of a column made just one-third the height of shaft? Try them at one-half and somehow or other you will not feel satisfied. Put two such columns side by side, one of which the fillings reach to half the height, the other to one third, and even the untutored eye will select the latter.

Have you ever seen a spire where if the height of angle minaret differ much from one-third the total attitude, the effect is pleasing to the eye. No, and any attempt to alter it materially is destructive of the effect while on the other hand minarets and angle turrets reaching above a flat-roofed building are altogether out of place and objectless as introduced in a new house at corner of Daiquillon and St. Augustin streets of this city.

In the same way can we account, I believe for the rule laid down in classic architecture, that the first or main story of an edifice — the "rez de chausee" as they call it in France, must be about two thirds of the combined height of the two stories which surmount it, and an attic story one-third thereof or two thirds the height of the story which it crowns, while the window in the classic attic I allude to must be two-thirds the height of the openings of the regular stories below.

A door must be in some way proportionate to the human form when properly attired, as of a woman with her skirts, say in height from two to two and a half times its width and never its width anything like equal to its height.

A room is not satisfactory, it will please no one, not even those who are incapable of knowing why or of giving expression to their dislike. unless its length bears a certain ratio to breadth and height. Our new Parliament buildings, Quebec, are quite a failure in this respect, and to the great detriment of economy of space and comparative cost of building which is only 50 feet in depth from out to out leaving but 15 feet for rooms on either side the corridor, and making mere guts of any room with more than two windows in it, which is the case with most of the committee rooms, as well of those for draughting purposes, and Works and Lands Departments; whereas, had the depth been made 60 feet, the building would have cost but a trifle more for floors and roofs only, with the same walls, the rooms have been 20 feet in depth instead of 15 and the stairs have had a proper tread instead of the break-neck things they are.

Gentlemen, believe me, it is in no spirit of fault finding that I allude to these detects of construction, distribution and architecture; but it behooves us to educate our youth and public sentiment to a true appreciation of what is proper; and in the same way as I am now pointing out defects in buildings due to others than myself, so would I at all times be ready to admit the justice of any like criticism where I have been concerned.

Our new post office is, by general consent deemed top heavy — that is, there is too much masonry, too great a height of wall above the unduly shortened windows of the upper or attic story, and the contrary defect obtains to some extent in our new court house, where there is too little masonry in proportion to the size and number of the openings, which, had they been curtailed in height by just one foot or course of masonry would have restored the desired ratio le rapport entre les pleins et les vides," as they say in France, improved the ratio of width to height of window; and maybe the mezzanine openings under the roof had better have been omitted, or if essential to light and ventilation, hidden— "dissimulees," as the characteristic French expression has it — behind some ornamental open iron scroll work in imitation of the sculptured frieze of an entablature.

If I allude only to buildings in Quebec and do not reach to Montreal and elsewhere for comparison, it is certainly not that there be not something there to criticize, as is the too scant height above the windows of the sick wards of the new Victoria hospital at the foot of the mountain, the ungainliness of the N. D. Cathedral, the prison like structure at the S. E. corner of the Square and Great St. James street, the space uselessly taken up by the stair well and passages in the new City Hall; but because I have not the buildings in my mind's eye, and I am of opinion, gentlemen, that no better paper could be written by any one of you, none invited or solicited from your city architects of more realistic value to students of architecture, none educative of and conducive to a proper appreciation of the aesthetic on the part of the public at large, than a paper like this, written in a proper spirit, without any desire of fault finding, and which may be discussed to the mutual benefit of all.

What would Mansard say if he could now behold the variety of section given to the roof that bears his name? and in dome construction why do we so

far depart from the beautiful proportions		of that of the "Invalides" at Paris

	1 will not say with the proverb that	 there is luck in odd numbers."

though I do not pretend to deny the fact; but there seems to be some reason for them even in the Scriptures, as in periods whether of weal or woe, famine or abundance, they are never counted in multitudes of 2, but where the odd unit invariably steps in to destroy the monotony of even numbers, and as well in breadth or horizontal magnitude, must these relations be observed as in the vertical already alluded to.

Try it and vary it as you will, the tower, the steeple must make some 

approach towards the one-third rule laid down of breadth of church facade, and so must the projecting or recessed central portion of any elevation of a building hold some relationship, some near approach to this same ratio of and 2 to 3.

The old Beauport church already alluded to by me, and of which the facade and spire were over 200 feet in height, is a case in point, its towers like those of Notre Dame, of Paris, Westminster, of London, York, Strasburg, Amiens, Chartres, Tours, Bordeaux, Rheims, Orleans and others bore to the total width of frontage the due proportion and hence more pleasing to the eye but the effect will now be destroyed in the restored structure by building the new towers, (with a view to not disturbing the interior) in a way to envelope the present ruins, thus increasing the distance between the towers without at the same the adding to their width and thus returning to the hybrid type of our Canadian church fronts with towers or imitation ones only one-quarter, one-fifth or less of the breadth of portal, instead of the majestic strength and beauty of the prototypes of ages.

Proportions must be adhered to or the thing becomes a failure, as in the case of the spire of the new church of St. J. B. of Quebec which, in spite of my forewarning, an old pupil of mine with Strasbourg and La Trinite, of Paris, before his eyes, has made an eyesore of from sheer want of 3 to feet to be added to its diameter.

The odd unit is essential in almost every case. Do we not always have an opening, a door or window, a gateway, or the like, exactly in the central axis of a building, and even in a bridge or viaduct, do we not always seek if possible to have a central span instead of a pier right in the middle of a river or a thoroughfare.

There are defects of space which may be remedied by optical illusion. If a structure be unavoidably low, avoid the too oft repeated horizontal lines of belting and cornices, and rather do the contrary and  throw it into vertical lines, which have the effect of adding to the height. The vertical flutings of a column lengthen the shaft while horizontal lines or spirally wound ornaments curtail the height, bring down the vault or ceiling and dwarf the building, as is the ease in the St. Patrick's church, Quebec, where the spirally guilt belt around the shaft brings down the ceiling by about 4 feet, and I wrote and advised the Fathers of this when but one column out of about a score or more had been done but clerical pride and obstinacy prevailed as usual, and my uninterested warning remained unheeded.

Nor must we forget to observe the natural in all we do not only must a post, a pillar or a column be stout and strong enough to support a structure, but it must appear to be. So, when the material for instance is iron, it should be known as such, and painted in a way to look like what it is, instead of being made to look like wood or stone, and thus create anxiety  and doubt as to the fitness of its size for the burden it has to hear, and how often do we not see this elementary rule of ethics outraged by dissimulating the true material under a coat of imitation stone or marble, where such material, reduced to so narrow a diameter, would not only be obviously inadequate to sustain the superincumbent weight, but not even self supporting when so long or tall in proportion to its breadth. Montreal in this respect I have observed to be often at fault, as when wide openings for shop windows, etc., are surmounted by heavy piers or walls and the supporting beam which must necessarily be of wood or iron is painted in imitation of the stone facade, while a stone of such an inadequate height in ratio to its length, could not even support itself without breaking, thus rendering it absurd in such a position unless supported from below by iron or other columns visible to the eye from the outside.

Again what is evidently strong enough to bear its burden need not, should not, be supported when the supporting member is not required for distributive and decorative purposes. One of our young and talented Quebec architects has been guilty of this by his introduction of a heavy cut stone column right up to and under the very key stone of the attic arched central window of a new store on Dalhousie street, Quebec. This column is not required for support and as a mullion it should only have reached to the springing of the arch and the curved space above have been thrown into two sub arches and a spandrel.

There are defects of crowding too, which should be steadily avoided, as where the bay and other lateral openings of the new Langelier dwelling on Grande Allee are by a foot or more too chose upon the central corps and entrance portico, and otherwise objectionably placed in a way to leave too much blank space beyond them.

Gentlemen, we want a School of Arts and Architecture, a school of architectural and constructive technology, or more than one, where our youth may be educated to the necessity and advisability of all these observances, and the thousands of dollars annually spent in making good the defects alluded to would ere this have paid for and maintained many such institutions on a permanent and continuous footing.

Relating to the sanitary element, made up of drainage, light, ventilation, heating, we are now pretty well off for Canadian and Foreign periodicals dealing with the subject, and I would merely remark on one of these heads, suiting the temperature to the requirements of the outer air, that I do not see why, as indicated in my paper "The Free and Liberal Ventilation of Sewers," read before the Royal Society in May, 1892, some means should not be devised and put into practice of adding to our comfort by cooling the inner air in summer in addition to heating it during cold weather. For, in the same way that the colder outer air is heated on its way to the interior of a building by being passed over heated pipes, in a similar manner can this outer air when too warm to suit the human system, be cooled down by passing it over the same pipes then filled with iced water instead of hot, or directly over a bed or stratum of ice; and how efficient this would prove is evidenced by the fact which all of you may have noticed as I have often done myself, that when on a warm day a breeze or current of air reaches one in the open after passing over the surface of the ice in the uninclosed van as we have them in Quebec, the decrease in temperature or coolness of the ambient air is thus most striking and agreeable.

And in other ways less costly can the air be cooled, as it always is in summer during a hot day when a shower of rain occurs, by robbing the air of its heat to become vapor by following the same process, imitating nature in an artificial sprinkling kept up during the hottest hours of the day, or better still, where it can be afforded, by artificial rain around the house or opposite an open door or window, by conducting a pipe under sufficient pressure to rise to roof level, so that perforated along its length like the sprinkler of a watering can, it may distribute its contents over so much of the eaves as to suit the purposes required.

As to fire proofing, I would merely say that the subject is most pertinent,

