<doctype type="text">

February, 1893	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	23



by us, with proper acknowledgement of our indebtedness. This report is a most valuable one and should be useful to each and every member of the Association.

During the past year the Council sent a deputation to Ottawa to interview the Government, relative to the fact that plans were admitted into this country practically duty free. It was in many respects a disagreeable duty which the Council had to perform, but as many of our members were complaining of the unjust competition with which they had to contend the Council determined to make an effort to mend matters.

We as a section of the community paying our due proportion of the duties levied by the Dominion Government under the National Policy, upon tire necessaries and luxuries required by us in living comfortably, have every whit as much right to the consideration of the Government, as the manufacturers or other bodies of the community. I am pleased to inform you that the Manufacturers Association recognized the s point and gave us such assistance as they could, in presenting our case before the Hon. Ministers, Messrs. <person>Foster</person> and <person>Bowell</person>. While as you may see by the report, we were promised something—indefinite it is true—we have received nothing so far as we can discover.

The Council were also instructed by the last convention to determine what could he done to protect an architects design from being used by a second party without compensation. You will sec by the very thorough report of Messrs. <person>Arnoldi</person> and <person>Ewart </person>that under the present copyright law, nothing can he done to remedy the evil, and it is more titan hopeless to have the matter dealt with in a way that would be satisfactory to us and to the public at tire same time.

At the request of the <assoc>British Columbia Institute of Architects</assoc>, the Government of British Columbia requested the Council of the Ontario Association to name experts to decide the competition for the new Legislative and Departmental buildings proposed to he erected in that province. The Council selected Mr. <person>Andrew Taylor</person>, F.R.I.BA.. R.C.A., of Montreal, and myself to act as the experts, and the appointment was immediately confirmed by the Government of British Columbia. The fact that the Government of British Columbia asked our assistance on this most important occasion, shows that they had confidence in us as an Association of Architects. We can therefore congratulate ourselves that our efforts to improve our professional standing have received recognition, while at the same time we were enabled to render some small assistance to a sister Association.

The Council arranged during the year that the Registrar should keep a list of draughtsmen who desired employment. Very little advantage was taken of this arrangement, owing, probably, to tire fact that, as there was so little work in progress during the summer, the draughtsmen deemed it useless to register their names. However, it was the means of several draughtsmen obtaining positions during tire year.

You arc no doubt aware that the Association has a regular indenture for students, which was approved of at the last convention.

The "Conditions of Competition which were approved by tire Association have not been printed as the Council deemed it unnecessary to incur that expense until an occasion should arise for their use.

The Association is now in possession of a seal, which was designed by Mr. <person>Edmund Burke</person>.

I had the pleasure last September of attending the annual rnmeeting of the Quebec Association, and cannot speak too highly of their hospitality, which, no doubt was extended to me as your representative. I believe it would he of great benefit to both Associations if each would send at least two representatives to take part in tire convention proceedings of the sister Association. They should have every privilege extended to them except the power of voting. By such means we would be brought closer together and each would have a better knowledge of the work carried on by the other Association 

I also had an invitation to attend the second annual meeting of the <assoc>Southern Chapter of the A. I. A</assoc>. which met in Birmingham Alabama. on the 12th of January last. I was unable to accept the invitation owing to lack of time and the distance to be traveled.

The extending of invitations by the representatives of one Association to those of another, to he present at tire annual conventions, is a very friendly and effective way of showing our interest in each others work. This spirit of mutual interest should be cultivated by the accepting of such invitations on all occasions when possible.

I now wish to refer to a petition for a reduction in the annual fees, which was received by the Council during tire year. This petition was sent in so very late in the year that it wits impossible for the Council to take any action on the lines suggested, event though they had deemed it desirable. The annual fees had been fixed by the first Council and practically approved by the Association, as no objection had been raised by any member until the petition had been sent in. By referring to the by-laws of the Association and Council, you will find that the entrance fee was placed at $1500, which also included the fee for tire balance of the first year. The regular annual fee was placed at $15.00 for Toronto members and $10.00 for members residing in other portions of the province Such being the ease, it was unwise to circulate a petition in tile middle of the year and long after the fees were due. The effect of circulating the petition was to delay the payment of fees in very many cases, and to induce sonic trot to pay them at all.

Such questions as this, should be brought tip at the annual meetings, where there is an opportunity for a full and ample explanation arid intelligent discussion and settlement. Do not m misunderstand rite, I airs not opposed to criticism. either fair or unfair of the management or of airy interest of the Association, so long as the criticisms is trade honestly and when and where it can he dealt with at once and effectively; but I am opposed to any action on tire part of anyone which tends to unsettle the minds of the members during the year, when it is utterly impossible for tire Council to take airy action. especially when such action, if taken. would lie a radical change in the policy of the Association.

One of the objects of holding these annual meetings is to allow the members ho bring up any questions which they may deem of importance. for discussion and settlement ; and if airy member considers that the fees are too high, it is his place to bring the question before this convention and to have it settled by the full membership of the Association. The Council does riot desire to control the affairs of the Association except for in benefit and to the entire satisfaction of its members ; and when their policy has met with no opposition during the past year it is only natural to believe that it will meet with approval in the succeeding year. No radical change in the management of this Association should take place our the suggestion of the Council or of any number of the members of the Association, unless such change has been discussed and approved by the members in convention.

I will now refer directly to the substance of the petition. The surplus which was quoted as a reason for the lowering of the fees was not really as large as it was stated ho be, as all the accounts against the Association were not in at The time the books were closed, lire surplus has been acquired from the registration fees and not from dues over and above the running expenses. The running expenses of tire Associations now rather exceed the in come than otherwise, and if our membership should decrease, as no doubt it will, unless we obtains a change in our Act, there will be annual deficit to be met out of the surplus The Council have from the first assumed that

the membership of the Association would diminish each year. Many of the members joined under the impression that it would benefit them ins some direct way, since the Association was formed under a special Act of Parliament ; they have since found that our position is not what they supposed and are now allowing their membership to lapse.

The reductions in membership has naturally reduced our receipts, and we are therefore in a position in winch we must riot only consider the minimum amount at which our annual fees should he fixed, but also in what respects the work of tire Association can be reduced with the least possible injury.

Some will bold that by reducing our fees we may retain our full membership but the trouble is that if we reduce our fees to a point sufficiently low to retain our membership, we shall receive a very small total income ; whereas if we hold our fees at the amounts we shall have a larger total income on a very much reduced membership With a small membership our numbers will consist of men who are enthusiastic in the work of the Association, and I believe greater progress will be made.

We have now reached a condition where careful study of our position, and a far sighted policy is required to carry us safely into port. In will also require on the part of each member a willingness to do all that be possibly can, to tide the Association over present difficulties In is for this meeting to take such action as it may deem best in the interests of the Associations.

To aid in the solution of our difficulties, I would suggest that the fees payable to the Associations he changed to tire following amounts graded to represent the interests of the different classes of members, viz. —Members residing in Toronto of five years standing and over, or those who are members of firms of five. years standing and over, $15.00; members residing in Toronto of less than five years standing $10.00; members residing in other cities in the province, of five years standing and over, or who are members of firms of five years standing and over $10.00 ; other members in these cities $5.00 ; members in towns, villages, etc., $5.00 ; members in civil service or in tire employment's of corporations but wino do not practice privately, $5.00; travelling members or those not residing in the province,

draughtsmen who have passed the final examinations, $5.00. if the fees were thus graded, no member would have any reasonable ground of complaint, since the members who derive most benefit from tine Association would pay the highest fees.

It is not advisable to lower the fees to too great an extent, as we should look forward to establishing a reading room containing all the published professional papers and a library of the nimost important and valuable standard architectural works. The members in Toronto could use the reading rooms with much advantage to themselves while it would be at the service of the country members for the transaction of business whenever they were in the city. The library would save members buying expensive books for which they have comparatively little use.

During the year some oh the members have complained that they were not receiving anything in return for their fees, If they meant they were not receiving any monetary return they were probably right. This Association was not formed on the basis of giving values for fees in a direct and tangible form. but rather iii air indirect and possibly intangible form. But I think that anyone who is impartial and reasonable will he able to discover that he has received some benefit even now, and that there is every hope of his receiving greater benefit in the near future, if the members if this Association are true to it and themselves Do those who join the many fraternal societies hope to receive any monetary return for their fees? I know of more except possibly those who use these societies for their own personal advantage. Tire greater number of our members I am sure, joined this Association, not so much for the good that it would do them, as for the good that they might do in aiding the Association to accomplish a much needed and highly desirable work. Ibis work is tine raising of our profession to the position to which it is justly entitled in tine vanguard of tire other professions. And if this position should ire attained will anyone here state that each and every one will nut then have received full value for what little he nay have paid unit in fees to tins Associations? But are there not some returns even now which are of some little value? Is the library of no benefit? It certainly is not to those who do not use it, but would it not he oh great benefit to very many who do not use in and who also complain of receiving nothing in return for their fees? Is the report on the crushing and oilier qualities of our building stones of no value? Are not the papers which have been read at these conventions and afterwards published of benefit? Are riot many of these subjects on winch reports have beets made of importance to our members? Has not nine drawing up of a students indenture and a set of competition conditions been some good accomplished

Gentlemen, I have no hesitation in stating that if all of our members were loyal to tine Association. and upheld the Council in its action, much more good would he accomplished to the advantage of us all, But where we have personal opposition which even goes so far as to strive to liming about serious defections, we cannot hope to accomplished over much. Do all our members refuse to take students who do not register ? And do they not retain in their offices both students and draughtsmen who will not ennui ply with the requirements made by the Council and approved by the Association? Some have even gone so far as ho abet such opposition on the part of students and draughtsmen. Is such conduct what one should expect from members of this or any other Association ? Is not the work of the Council and this Association a sufficiently difficult one without it being made still more so, by petty opposition? Let those who do not approve of the management of the Association, conic here and enter their protests in a manly way, and if possible gain tire support of their fellow-members for any suggestion they base to make, which ins their opinions will he beneficial

I have devoted this address entirely to considering tire position and business affairs of this Association. Our position at the present time is a serious one, and it behooves us 10 carefully consider our affairs, that we may go forward if possible along the road which will carry us to the goal of our aims and desires.

I have spoken plainly. but I hope without offense to anyone. I have no desire 10 hurt or offend airy member but I think that plain dealing with difficult questions at a serious period is the only way in which we eats acquire a firm foothold on a sound foundation. My anxiety ho see this Association secure in its position is my excuse for stunting my opinions plainly, and I only hope that others will do the same and then we shall know exactly where and how we stand

I regret that it is my sad duty to refer to the serious loss which our Association sustained in the sudden and lamented deaths of Mr. <person>W. G. Storm </person>R. C. A., the first President of this Association. Little we though one short year ago, when Mr. Storm took his position on the platform its the moons below this one, as President of the Association, that he would ere another year had passed, derive departed from this world and his work, to that other world of winch we know so little and to which we are all travelling. Of his skill as an architect I will not speak, but will leave the buildings which he erected during his busy life, to speak for rise, since you are as capable as I airs of estimating his professional attainments through them For the advancement of this Association Ire worked earnestly and at considerable sacrifice of his material interests He did not work in hope of any personal gain or benefit, hut out of love for his profession. Many times, be staled that it was more than likely that he would have passed away, long before

