<doctype type="text">

February, 1893	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	17



<article title=" MONTREAL

" author="">

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

Of the houses standing this year in Montreal, 25,774 are built of brick, 5,482 of stone, and 3,118 of wood.

Mr. <person>John J. Macdonald</person>, one of the most prominent railroad contractors in Canada. died at the <building>St. Lawrence Hall hotel</building>, in this city, on the 12th inst. Mr. Macdonald was of late years a partner in the well-known firm of <firm>Manning, Macdonald, McLaren & Co</firm>., who built Section B. of the C. P. railroad on the north shore of Lake Superior, a most difficult piece of work. Mr. Macdonald was highly esteemed in business and social circles.



A board of arbitrators awarded $16,308 damages to the Trustees of Calvary Congregational Church, against the <firm>Atlantic and Northwest Railroad Co</firm>., on account of loss alleged to have been sustained in depreciation in the value of their property by reason of the running of trains close to their property since the railroad obtained its entrance to the Windsor street depot. The Superior Court has reduced the award to $1,367, refusing to allow damages except for the right of which the church had been deprived to build over a lane, and for deprivation of light and air. An appeal has been taken by the trustees from this judgment, and the decision is expected to be given on the 28th inst.



AT the last monthly meeting of the resident members of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>, Mr. <person>Joseph Veuve </person>gave an address on "Archaeology in it's Relation to Architecture The benefits accruing from the study of archaeology, in freeing the student of architecture from narrowness of ideas, were dwelt upon. The paper was a most interesting one, and evoked considerable discussion. <person>Mr. Taylor </person>promised on his own behalf and that of other members of the Association to deliver lectures before the students during the winter, provided those for whose benefit the proposal was made, would show by their attendance that they were desirous of being thus instructed The bill concerning laborers, mechanics and contractors, which is to be presented at the next session of the Legislature. was also discussed, and the opinion of the Association was that laborers and mechanics were quite sufficiently protected under the present code, and that no further protection should be furnished as it would lead to fraud and would encourage the growth of an irresponsible class of contractors.



AN IMPORTANT POINT AFFECTING BUILDERS AND ARCHITECTS IN

THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC.

An action was brought against the <firm>Royal Electric Co</firm>. to recover $325 for rebuilding a chimney which had been constructed a short time previous by plaintiff and had fallen. The plaintiff alleged and proved that the defect in the construction was owing to the defective plan furnished him by defendant's architect. The Court held, however, that this did not exonerate the plaintiff from responsibility, that the law made him jointly and severally liable with the architect for the loss, and dismissed his action. This rule of responsibility appears to be hard, but it has been long settled on principles of public policy, and is or should be known to every builder, who must contract therefore with reference to it. If any one does not wish to assume the full responsibility imposed by the law he should have in express provision inserted in his contract to exclude or modify his responsibility. The decision was based upon the following Articles of the Civil Code, which are declaratory of the law of the Province of Quebec :—Art. 1688—If a building perish in whole or in part, within ten years, from a defect in the construction, or even from the unfavorable nature of the ground, the architect superintending the weak and the builder are jointly and severally liable for the loss. Art. 1689.—If in the case stated in the last preceding Article, the architect do not superintend the work, he is liable only for the loss which is occasioned by defect or error in the plan furnished by him. After ten years architects and contractors are discharged from the warranty of the work they have directed or done.





<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">.

Granite is the lowest rock in the earth's crust. It is the bed rack of the world. It shows no evidence of animator vegetable life. It is from two to ten inches as thick as the united thickness of all other rocks. It is the parent rock from which all other rocks have been either directly or indirectly derived.



·A Pacific coast journal says: It is a well known fact among car and bridge builders that Douglas fir is stronger than white oak and will last fully as long. Tests bear out the assertion. A recent test was made at the Northern Pacific car shops, Tacoma, with a piece of fir and one of white oak. Both pieces were of the same length, width and thickness. By laying the two pieces with the end on a piece of iron and putting weights in the center, it was found that the white oak broke, while the fir sustained one quarter more weight without showing signs of breaking. In a test far end breaking the white oak showed its superiority on account of its fine close grain. Therefore, where fir can be used flat, it is stronger than oak; but where the timbers are to be used in the shape of pile drivers or battering rains, oak or other fine-grained woods are best.



To DARKEN OAK.—Oak for decorative wood work is produced by fumigating the material with ammoniacal vapor, which effectively produces the dark coloring so much desired. In accomplishing this, the method consists in placing the material to be darkened in an approximately air-tight room in which no light enters are for small work a packing box will suffice the joints or cracks to be well pasted over with paper. In this room or receptacle for depositing the furniture or other article is placed a flat porcelain or earthen vessel filled with ammonia, the vessel containing the liquid being,

of course, set on the ground or floor, that the fumes or vapor may strike to advantage the articles to be darkened; if the apartment is large, two or more vessels containing ammonia may be employed and allowed to remain until the desired effect is secured. The ammonia does not touch the oak, but the gas that proceeds from it acts in a peculiar manner upon the tannic acid contained in oak, browning it so deeply that a shaving or two may actually be taken off without removing the color. The depth of shade depends upon the quantity of ammonia used and the duration of exposure.





<article title=" BAY WINDOWS AND ORIELS " author="">. BAY WINDOWS AND ORIELS

The distinction between a bay and an oriel is as follows : By the former is understood a projecting window, or rather a projection pierced with window opening in its entire width and rising immediately from the ground, whether it be confined to the lower part of the building or carried up through one or more stones above the ground floor ; by the latter a bay which does not descend to the ground, but is suspended over the face of the wall beneath it. Oriel accordingly corresponds with the German terms Erker-fenster and Bhor-Jenster, which are almost the only ones of similar import in any foreign language. This absence of a name for it is accounted for by the thing itself being scarcely known in the architecture of other countries, and in our own it occurs only in our Domestic Gothic or Tudor, such form of window being very rare indeed in ecclesiastical structures. In our Domestic, which also comprises collegiate architecture it is, a beautiful and. valuable feature, and one which admits of very great diversity of design and also imparts much variety and liveliness of effect to a building, more especially if there be ground bays likewise, the two kinds of projection both harmonizing and contrasting with each other. Internally there is no distinction between bays and oriels in as much as both the one and the other form a recess whose sides are filled with windows. But greater variety of plan occurs in oriels than in bays, which, are usually more spacious as to breadth and of shallower proportions as to depth; they are also either rectangular in plan, or. form three sides of an octagon, whether a regular one or not, whereas curved farms are- of frequent occurrence in the plans of oriels and are occasionally combined with straight ones. Yet as similar plans do occur in bays no real distinction can be found upon such accident of design—Architect.



<article title=" BORED MOLDING " author="">

BORED MOLDING.

Hardwood, a Chicago lumber trade paper, suggests that hardwood moldings would be much more popular if they were bored for nailing, similar to the way-hardwood flooring is now bored by many first-class mills. It says: A great deal of stained softwood molding. is used, simply because it is so easy to fasten in place, when hardwood would be preferred and would be used but for the extra work required in using it, much hand boring and the most careful nailing being necessary to prevent splitting. Maple makes a beautiful molding in connection with certain kinds of finish, but it is almost impossible to fasten it with. out boring to prevent splitting. This is especially true of the cleanest and whitest of soft or white maple. Much oak, both white and red, also requires boring, while chestnut, which is very desirable from its lightness and close resemblance to oak, should always be bored for every nail. Black walnut will always pay for the extra trouble even of the expensive hand boring, and such cheap and common woods as gum and basswood will, be formed to pay for boring, as would Norway and yellow pine A competent machinist declares that -a machine for boring can be attached to the sticker or regular molding planer, so that the stock will require no extra handling, and that can be made adjustable to any width of molding or any sized bit or any length of space between holes, varying from the finest cabinet stock to the ordinary house trim or picture moving. House trimmers and cabinetmakers are ready to welcome the first bored stock offered. They. know and realize the benefit such a thing would be to them. Who will' be the first to advertise molding with the catching alliterative phrase of the flooring men, "bored, butted and bundled?"





A sketch for a Canadian cottage, by Mr. <person>Ernest Wilby</person>, late of Toronto, appeared in the London Building News of Nov. 18th.



The medal offered by the Painters' Magazine to the pupil of The painting class of the New York Trades Schools has been awarded to <person>William H. Leacock</person>, of Westport, Ont.,

