<doctype type="text">

Mr. <person>Edwards</person> said, while the proposition seemed all right on its face, it would he necessary to send along the Librarian with the books, and to engage a room in which to keep them. The matter was now in a practicable shape, and he advised keeping it the

Mr. <person>Gouinlock</person> said the proposition suggested to him the idea of a travelling dairy.

The motion was lost.

ADDITIONS TO THE Library

Mr. <person>Gordon</person> brought forward a motion of instruction to the Library Committee, coupling with it a vote of thanks to that committee for the manner in which they had in the past served the interests of the Association. He thought it was highly desirable to make the library as complete as was consistent with the state of the funds of the Association, and he therefore asked that they would take into their consideration the desirability of applying a portion of the capital account to the purchase of books. (Hear, hear). It was along that line that members could be shown they were getting something for their fees, lie believed that the members who had received books from the library would feel at the end of the year that they were getting a very tangible return for their money.

Mr. <person>Paull </person>seconded the motion.

The President stated that it was the intention of the Council that the library should be increased, but that before taking action in that direction they wished to feel that they had behind them the support of the Association in making the necessary expenditure. I He quite agreed that it was better to invest some of the capital in books rather than have it buying in the bank.

Mr. <person>Gordon</person> said that at all events the interest on the investment in the bank, and whatever was cleared from revenue above the necessary expenses, should be applied in this way.

Mr. <person>Burke</person> directed attention to the fact that it would be necessary this year to draw upon capital account for legislation expenses.

The motion was carried.



REDUCTION OF FEES.



Mr. Edwards asked if anything had been done towards the reduction of fees.

The President said that matter was now before the meeting it was open to anyone to bring in a resolution regarding it.

Mr. <person>Gregg</person> moved that the fees for city members be $12 per annum, and for country members $8 per annum, and that the Council consider the advisability of making those fees permanent.

Mr. Edwards was opposed to making any distinction between city members and others.

Mr. <person>Helliwell </person>suggested that, instead of making any general reduction or changing the amount definitely, for the present year the Council should allow a certain discount to be fixed upon the fees.

Mr. <person>Darling</person> thought the idea a good one, and that the discount should only be given to those who paid their fees at the first part of the year.

Mr. Burke also thought the suggestion a very practical one.

The President thought there would he difficulty in enforcing the latter part of the proposition.

Mr. <person>Dick</person> asked why could not the fees for the present year be reduced as suggested in the President's address, or upon that line. Then, if any moneys were wanted for legislation, or any other special purpose, he thought members would be only too glad to respond ; he knew that as far as he as personally concerned he would he very happy to do so.

Mr. <person>Baker</person> thought the present fee was a very reasonable one. The President said the suggestions he had made were based upon a fairly wide knowledge of the feelings of outside members, and he thought they were reasonable in every way. The proposed arrangement was one which would enable the Association to retain its members. He certainly thought the amount paid in fees ought to be proportionate to the benefit derived by the member. Then, at the present time men came up for the examinations, and did not enter as members, and lie thought the Association ought to be in a position to force them to become members as soon as they had passed the examination. To draughtsmen who bad passed the examination the payment of $5 would not be a serious thing, whereas $15 was a considerable item. He also thought that for members working for corporations, or the Government, $5 would be a very fair fee, so long as they did not practice professionally those who put themselves in competition with other architects ought, of course, to pay the full fee. It would not he difficult to establish whether they were doing that. He thought it would he a mistake to have the fees fluctuating from year to year, and it would also he lacking in dignity. If the fees at present were too high, he was in favor of dealing with the matter in such a way as to satisfy the members. If there was any discontent, let them state their views. As a matter of fact, he thought there was very little dissatisfaction, when it came to the point, for nearly all the members who had signed the petition had paid their fees. lie knew there were some who considered their fees too high, some in the city of Ottawa, and he felt that their complaint was not without reason, because they were in the employ of the Government, and paid their fee of $10 to the Association without receiving any direct benefit in return for it.

The President then read again that portion of his address in which the fees were referred to, and continuing, said he had made the suggestions after consideration of information lie had received from various sources and he thought while the proposed reduction was a reasonable one it would not so seriously diminish the revenue of the Association as to cripple it. He thought it might at all events he made to work for four or five years, and then, if it was found desirable, the higher fee could he reverted to.

Mr. <person>Kenny</person> seconded Mr. Gregg's motion.

Mr. <person>Arnoldi</person> moved that instead of reducing the subscription, the Council he recommended to make a rebate to each of the different classes mentioned by the President, on their making application for the same.

The Registrar seconded the motion.

Mr. Arnoldi said by that method, if a man was a civil servant, and only wanted to pay the smaller fee, he could secure the rebate by asking for it.

Mr. <person>Gouinlock</person> was unable to see why civil servants should get any reduction.

The President said that any such reduction to members of the civil service would be on the express understanding that they were not to practice outside of their departmental work. If they were known to take even one job, they should pay the higher fee. Another point which occurred to him was, that young men starting in the city of Toronto would find an assessment of would come rather heavy on them, and he thought in such cases, if they desired it, the fee should be only $10.

The President then said he would submit Mr. Gregg's motion in amendment as opposed to the other ideas, and then, if that was lost, a decision could be made between the other two.

Mr. Gregg's amendment was then submitted to a vote, and was lost.

The President then said the vote would now be between a straight fee and Mr. Arnoldi's motion.

Mr. Gordon corrected the President, and said that his resolution was, that the Council be recommended to grade the fees in general accordance with the suggestions contained in the President's address, not necessarily binding them on that line.

The Registrar suggested the amalgamation of Mr. Gordon's motion and Mr. Arnoldi's amendment.

Mr. Gordon said there was nothing in Mr. Arnoldi's motion which conflicted with his.

Mr. Burke did not think the Council should be hampered with anything of this kind. There had been a very general expression of opinion, and he thought the matter should now be simply referred to the Council to thresh out and decide what was best.

Mr. Arnoldi thought it would be well, there having been so much talk, to have a motion carried

Mr. Burke pointed out that then.. would be difficulty in the grading.

The President thought these matters would straighten themselves out ; it would not do to object to a straight principle because there might be difficulty in carrying it out. He thought the best way now would be to take a vote of those generally in favor of Mr. Gordon's motion.

The vote being taken, it was shown that the meeting was generally in favor of the motion of Mr. Gordon.

Mr. Gordon brought forward a motion in favor of holding future Conventions at some place down town, which would be more convenient than the School of Practical Science.

Mr. Darling, on the score of convenience, favored the proposal to hold the convention down town, at the same time expressing his sense of the obligation the Association was under to the Government for having placed at their disposal the room in which the present meeting was held. He thought, however, if the meetings were held down town, members would be able to attend them, and at the same time give some little attention to the business of their offices.

The Registrar thought that would be a decided disadvantage, for members would then be trying to attend to things which might very well be left to another day ; he thought it was better they should prepare to devote the whole day to the business of the Convention. Further, it was not well to lose sight of the advantages accruing to the Association from being in this manner affiliated with the School of Practical Science, which was the basis of their education, and the practical advantages afforded by the use of time magic lantern, which in the able hands of Mr. Wright was of such service in illustrating papers With it the very smallest drawing could be reproduced on a very large scale on the screen, to say nothing of the many beautiful architectural illustrations, some of which Mr. <person>Wright</person> had kindly exhibited during the present meeting.

Mr. Burke also deprecated the idea of removing the Convention from the School of Practical Science, on account of the intimate relations existing between it and the Association, and in view of the future objects of the Association.

No action was taken in regard to the proposal.

ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL.



The election of three members of the Council was then proceeded with. Mr. Wright of the School of Practical Science, and Mr. <person>Emerson</person>, stenographer of the Convention, were requested to act as scrutineers.

Three ballots having been taken, the scrutineers declared that

