<doctype type="text">

February, 1893	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	2



legislation sought was obtained, the machinery of these Chapters might be utilized in furthering the desired cause.

Mr. <person>Gordon</person> considered the proposition a vcry radical one, and of great importance, as it would change the whole complexion of the Association, and was of opinion that it was something which ought not to be put through hurriedly. For his own part, he could perceive many points cropping up in regard to which he was not prepared to come to a decision. He questioned whether the plan would work outside of Toronto and Hamilton. While the idea was no doubt a good one for the consideration of the governing body, he thought it was something which ought not to be decided upon at the present convention, certainly not without a great deal more consideration than it had yet received. For one thing, it would necessitate further expense on the part of the members, in the way of travelling expenses going to and from the respective centres, rent of rooms, etc., and it was not well in any way to interfere with the financial position of the Association. On the whole, he thought the motion premature, and he would rather, if it were permissible, move that the whole matter be left to the consideration of the governing body, rather as a suggestion than as a resolution carrying instructions.

Mr. Burke suggested that members from the districts proposed be heard as to the practicability of the proposition.

Mr. <person>Belcher</person>, while regarding the plan as a good one as far as endeavoring to secure influence towards the passage of the proposed legislation was concerned, and believing that some such plan might ultimately be made to work with advantage to the Association on the lines foreshadowed by Mr. <person>Gregg</person>, still thought it better to wait until the affairs of the Association were in a rather more fixed condition than at present.

Mr. <person>Power </person>endorsed everything that had been said by Mr. Gordon. It was difficult to get members sufficiently enthused to come to the conventions, and he thought it would be uphill work to get them together in smaller numbers at local centres. The proposition might have the effect of bringing together outside members in their districts for a time, but little local troubles would crop up and put the members at loggerheads and the thing would fail to work satisfactorily. But with a view to canvassing the country at present, he thought the proposition was a good one, although it sufficient enthusiasm existed in the districts the canvass might be carried on by individual members without thc expense attendant upon any special organization.

Mr. <person>Gouinlock</person> seconded Mr. Gordon's motion, and expressed his entire adherence to the views of that gentleman.

Mr. <person>Arnoldi, </person>while approving of the idea for the purpose of interviewing and watching the members of the Legislature in connection with the effort to sccure the desired change, was doubtful of the success of the other features of the proposal

Mr. Gregg expressed his entire willingness to accept Mr. Gordon's amendment. The only objection that had been made to his proposal, however, was that the branches might be started and then die, lie did not think there was any harm in starting them if they were only effective in the one thing of working for the required legislation.

Mr. Gordon described what in another organization with which he was connected are called District Conferences, in which members from the central body at stated times visit certain points in the province, and co-operate with local members in holding meetings. Perhaps some such plan might be made to work well in connection with this Association, that one or two members of the governing body should meet with local men in that way, and a deputation wait upon the members of the Legislature. lie threw out this suggestion merely to show what was done in other organizations.

Mr. Wickson was of opinion that the matter might safely be left in the hands of the Council.

The President thought Mr. Gregg's idea was a good one, as was also that just suggested by Mr. Gordon. He thought the organization of the proposed chapters should be proceeded with if at all workable. If the country could he divided up as proposed, and arrangements made that some person in each district should attend to the matter of seeing the members of the Legislature, the Association could pay the actual expenses incurred in doing so. For instance, if Mr. Arnoldi, at Ottawa, could arrange to see several of the members for constituencies in that district, let his expenses in doing so be paid. The same might be done by Mr. Power in Kingston, and by others in various places. He thought, however, it would be better to leave the matter to the Council. A great many members of the Council were present, and would through the medium of the present debate be fully aware of the wishes of the Association in regard to it.

Mr. Gordon's amendment was then put to the meeting, and carried.

CHANGE OE TIME OF HOLDING CONVENTION.



Mr. Arnoldi said he experienced a great deal of inconvenience in attending the Convention at the time at which it was now held, and thought that others must he similarly inconvenienced. He, therefore, moved that the by-laws of the Association be changed, so as to admit of the Convention being held at some time in the month of December.

Mr. <person>Townsend </person>said he thought a notice of motion would be necessary.

Mr. Belcher seconded the motion, though personally he found

no difficulty in attending in February, but he thought the general convenience might be better served by the change.

Mr. <person>Darling</person> thought it would be convenient to hold the Convention just before Christmas ; many people during the holiday time were in the habit of visiting Toronto, and that arrangement would enable them to kill two hirds with one stone.

Mr. Power preferred some time in January. Members had not always their old work finished in December, and he thought the latter part of January, before new work began coming in, was a more convenient time.

The Registrar, as a point in favor of January, said hy that time the books would be closed, which would not be the case in December, unless the beginning of the financial year was  changed. 

Mr. <person>Henry</person> expressed himself in favor of the change to December, and moved that the Council be requested to consider the desirability of making the alteration.

Mr. Townsend agreed with Mr. Henry that the matter had better be left to the Council.

Mr. Darling thought the Council was being loaded up altogether too much; surely some business at least might be done in the Convention. If a change was to be made he believed in doing it now.

Mr. Burke spoke in favor of January; he thought about the middle of that month would be an opportune time. He noticed, too, that the examinations came on at a very awkward time perhaps a change could also be made in regard to them.

The President said he thought objections to coming to the Conventions would he raised by some members, no matter at what time it was held they were always busy when the Convention took place. As the financial year ended on the 1st of January, it would he better to have the Convention as soon after that as was reasonable and convenient. At that time members generally had their previous year's business wound up, and had not yet got into the spring work. An objection to December would bc found in the fact that although at the present meeting little had been done in the way of reading papers, one of the objects of the Conventions was to secure the preparation and reading of papers of interest, and members could hardly be asked to prepare them for December. A certain amount of preparation had also to be made by the Council, which would make December inconvenient. He thought from the 7th to the 15th of January would be a convenient time.

Mr. Power moved in amendment, that the Convention be held on the third Tuesday in January, but at the suggestion of another member changed it to the second Tuesday in January.

Mr. <person>Aylesworth</person> seconded the motion.

After some further discussion, the President suggested the first Tuesday in January after the 10th, and Mr. Power consenting to that change in his motion, it was put to the meeting, and carried.

VOTING BY LETTER BALLOT.



Mr. Arnoldi said that even after every provision had been made for the convenience of members attending the Convention there was still a number who really were unable to come, and in order to sustain their interest in the affairs of the Association, he thought they should not he debarred from voting ; he would therefore move that the by-laws of the Association he so amendcd as to admit of such members voting for members of the Council by letter ballot.

Mr. <person>Edwards</person> had great pleasure in seconding the motion, he was really very much pleased with the motion, for, as things are at present, the nomination really carried with it the election cf the nominees. Somebody knew how the thing was, but the candidates themselves did not know, nor did the Association. He therefore thought that voting by letter ballot would be a step in the right direction, as it would extend the franchise to those who were unavoidably absent from the convention, He heartily endorsed the proposal.

Mr. Gouinlock differed from the mover and seconder of the motion. He regarded the opportunity of voting as an incentive to the members to attend the Convention, and, as it was difficult enough, even with the existing inducements, to get them to attend, he was opposed to doing anything like placing a premium on absence from the meeting.

Mr. Burke thought the attendance of members at the convention afforded an index as to how the Association ought to vote for members of the Council the men who were to be found attending the meeting were those who ought to hc in the Council.

Mr. Power foresaw that there would be a difficulty in connection with the letter hallot which was now experienced in reference to the nomination papers sent out that is, there would he voting for persons who lacked the necessary qualifications, and who were ineligible. Of course such names would he struck off by the Council, but it might engendler ill feeling.

The President did not think that would he found an insuperable difficulty.

Mr. <person>Kay </person>had no faith whatever in the letter ballot, In the Odd Fellows, to which he belonged, that method had been tried, and on two successive years had resulted in an abortive election. He saw by the newspapers, that the same trouble had heen experienced hy the <assoc>Medical Association</assoc>, and the Druggists also had the same trouble.

Mr. Belcher said that the <assoc>Society of Engineers </assoc>sent to each member a list, such as the members present now had, and they

