<doctype type="text">

just marked with a pen through each name other than those they voted for, and returned the paper to the Secretary, and on that the members of the Council were elected.

Mr. <person>Darling </person>Enquirer how many of the people to whom nomination papers had been sent had filled them up and returned them ; he thought that would be some guide.

	Mr. <person>Arnoldi</person> did not think that would furnish any guide.	He

knew that in Ottawa a good deal of interest was taken in this matter of election of members to the Council, the members there consulting with each other in regard to it. As to members not showing enough interest to come to the Convention, in the case of Ottawa there were sixteen member's residing there, of whom he was the only one on the committee. Now it was not that these men had no interest in the Association— they had a great interest—hut, owing to the nature of their duties, they really could not get away.

The Registrar, answering Mr. Darling's q question, said that out of 105 nomination papers sent out, 27 had been returned.

The President said that what had just been stated by Mr. Arnoldi was in itself a possible ground of objection to the letter ballot. If the members in Ottawa united on a candidate, and determined to elect him, and there was no such combination in other places, the candidate so supported would be sure of election. Of course, if there was no such arrangement and concentration of the vote, and each member voted as the expression of his individual opinion, that trouble would not exist, but there was that possibility. Sixteen votes concentrated in that manner would have a very decisive effect on the election. Of course, what he had said regarding Ottawa might apply to Hamilton London, or any other place where there were a number of members.

Mr. <person>Townsend</person> thought the meeting together of the members in the annual convention was a matter of great importance, and the introduction of the system of letter ballot would have the effect of reducing the number of those attending the Conventions. He instanced, in support of his contention, that yesterday there were not nearly so many members in attendance as to-day, the reason being that the election brought out the members. He would regard thc adoption of the letter ballot as a very great mistake.

The President said that there was no doubt a degree of hardship to the Ottawa members, in the fact that they were practically shut out from the Convention, lie would now put the motion "That the by-laws of the Association be so amended as to enable members to vote for members of the Council by letter ballot." Lost.

ELECTION OF PRESIDENT.

Mr. Darling said that if the growth of the Association continued, and it attained the position which was looked forward to, it would be an honor anyone might covet to be its President, and he felt that it would he very much better that the President should be elected by the open vote of the Association, and not

merely by a vote of the Council, as was now the case.		He

therefore desired to offer a motion to that effect.

Mr. <person>Edwards</person> asked if it was the intention to have an open vote? 

Mr. Darling said that was not the intention, but that the election of the President should be decided by the vote of the Association at large, not merely by the Council.

Mr. <person>Gordon </person>wished to second the motion like Mr. Darling he thought it far better that this should be a matter in which the Association at large would take an interest, and that the man placed in the position of President should be chosen by them as the one they thought best suited to fill the office.

Mr. Darling said the proposition might necessitate some change in the constitution, because the President was the one who had to sign checks, etc., and if the President elected lived at a distance away, it would be a serious obstacle unless some alteration was made. His idea would be to elect the President more as an honorary thing and let the Vice-President do the work.

Mr. Townsend while admitting there was a good deal to bc said in favor of Mr. Darling's proposition, called attention to the fact that the Association had not the power to make such a change without first getting the Act of Incorporation changed to allow of it.

The President suggested that Mr. Darling should change his motion to a request that the Council would try to secure the change in the Act necessary to admit of voting for the President by the Association at large.

Mr. Darling thought he would make the motion as one of instruction to the Council.

Mr<person>. Wickson </person>questioned the wisdom of bothering the Government about any more changes to the Act. Why could not the Association suggest to the Council the name of the person they desired to see elected as President? They instructed the Council in regard to other matters, why not in regard to this ? (Laughter.)

Mr. Darling urged as his reason for bringing the matter forward, that he thought such a mode of electing the President would carry with it greater honor. He had conceived that idea and one or two other members to whom he had spoken seemed to entertain the same view. For that purpose he made it a motion that the Council take the matter up, and endeavor to secure the necessary change in the Act.

Mr. <person>Belcher</person> inquired if it would not be prejudicial to the job

in view, of getting the word "registered" withdrawn from the Act, to make too many suggestions to the Government at the present time?

Mr. Darling said if he for one moment thought that would be the case he would not press the matter. The one essential thing at present was to get rid of that word, and if that could be secured he was willing to abandon anything else.

Mr. Belcher said it had been suggested to him by Mr. Arnoldi who was a more wily politician than he could claim to be, that the more changes they could suggest at the one time the better, as that would have the effect of concealing what was. the real point they wanted, to which there might then be less opposition. (Laughter.)

Mr. Townsend seconded Mr. Darling's motion.

Mr. <person>Power </person>suggested that no action be taken until the two things could be brought forward together.

Mr. Darling said no doubt if the Council found that seeking the change in regard to the mode of electing the President at all prejudiced the prospects of the other change, they would at once drop it.

Mr. <person>Kay</person> thought there was a great deal of sentiment about this matter. The present method of electing the President was the one pursued by all Joint Stock Associations, Agricultural Associations, and almost every other incorporated body.

Mr. <person>Paull </person>said that in the Old Country the Mayor of a Corporation was elected by thc Councilmen in just the same manner the President of the Association was now elected.

The President said that while he personally had a good deal of sympathy with the idea, it was still the fact that if a man could be elected to the Council by the Association, he should also be capable of securing election as President of the Association. If the Association as a body was prepared to elect any member on the Council, they would likely also elect him to the Presidency as well, and the Council would certainly be in a much better position to elect a President than the members as a whole. At the same time, as far as sentiment was concerned he favored the election of the President by the Association rather than by the Council. As a pure, downright, business question it was another matter, and he did not know but what the present method was the most straightforward arrangement. However, if the feeling of the Convention was in favor of the change, he did not anticipate any trouble on the part of the Government, who he thought were desirous of meeting the wishes of the Association. He then requested the members who were in favor of the motion, "That the Council be requested to consider this matter, with a view to having the Act changed so as to permit of the election of the President by vote of the Association," to signify their approval of it.

Mr. Townsend said he understood Mr. Darling's motion to be that the office of President should be purely honorary, and that the work should be done by a Vice-President elected by the Council ?

Mr. Darling replied in the affirmative.

The President did not think that would be right ; he thought the man who did the work should enjoy the honors he did not think any man would care to do the work on any other terms. Perhaps, after all, the best plan would be, after the nine members of the Council had been elected, to have a vote of the Association to elect a President from among them. He thought that would be practicable.

Mr. <person>Henry</person> thought it would be sufficient if the Association expressed its wishes to the Council.

Mr. <person>Burke</person> said that there were three members retiring from the Council each year. By the plan proposed, the Council might elect \one of those men President which would give him a fourth year, and debar another man from coming in.

The President pointed out that the Council would be elected first, and when elected would bring on a vote for the Presidency.

Mr. Burke said he was referring to Mr. Darling's motion.

The President asked Mr. Darling if it would meet his idea, to let the Association elect a President from among the nine members elected to the Council?

Mr. Darling replied that it had occurred to him that it would be adding honor to the office of President if the election was by the Association. Of course the matter was one which would have to be put in workable shape by the Council, and he was satisfied that the Council should undertake it.

The motion as last amended was then carried.

A CIRCULATING LIBRARY.

Mr. Arnoldi said he thought it would be pleasing to the country members if the books of the Association in the library could be sent holus bolus to Peterboro', Hamilton or other places, and retained there for a stated time, say three months, to enable the local members to enjoy the advantage of using them. He tendered a motion to that effect.

The motion having been seconded by Mr. <person>Power

</person>A member inquired if it was not the fact that members residing outside of Toronto could have any of these books by simply writing to the Registrar.

The President said that was the fact ; any member, no matter where he lived, by sending a card to the Registrar, could have any book in the library sent to him at once, if the book was in the library, and if not, as soon as it was returned by the member then having it out. Of books for which the demand was great, there were three or four copies in the library.

