<doctype type="text">	26	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	February, 1893



consideration were intimately related, to spend a little time in that way.

Mr. <person>Gregg</person> suggested that, as the next report was that of the Committee appointed to make tests of building stone in use in Canada, it would be well to hear that report and then devote the remaining time to the discussion of the state of the Association.

The President concurring,

Mr. <person>Thompson </person>moved that the report he taken as read. Carried.

Mr. Gregg moved the reception and adoption of the report, together with a vote of thanks to Mr. <person>Townsend </person>and the other members who assisted in its preparation.

The motion being seconded by Mr. <person>Belcher</person>, was carried

THE STATE OF THE. ASSOCIATION.

Mr. <person>Edwards</person>, referring to the proposed changes in the Act, spoken of in the President's address, expressed a desire for a little more information on the subject. He thought it would be a matter of congratulation if they were as successful in the near future as the President's address seemed to contemplate. He wished to say that the Council had not, as stated in the address, been laboring unaided, for he felt sure that outside members had been bringing to bear what influence they could towards the desired end. At the same time, would it not cause a good deal of kicking throughout the country if the change were effected? He thought it well not to be too sanguine in regard to this matter, but if the President had any reasons for the hope he had expressed, which could be made public, the members would no doubt be glad to hear them.

The President: With regard to the change and amendments, theme is really no deviation from the policy adopted in the he-ginning. We sought to procure an Act conferring upon qualified members of the profession the right to use the word "architect." The Government, or some one connected with the Government, inserted in the Act the word "registered," which had the effect of destroying its force, and which we desire to have removed from it. The sooner that word is removed, the sooner will the opposition we encounter he decreased. If it is allowed to remain five years there will be so many more outsiders opposed to it, or who will have to come in, because, practically, when that word is knocked out, we will have to admit every man who at that time is working at the profession ; we could not at the end of that time interfere with the men who had started tip in practice, and had made use of the word architect. That would be interfering with a vested right, which is something we could not do.

Mr. Edwards: Then anyone commencing business now as a practising architect can join the Association, and all we have done to the contrary is of no effect. In other word is, we just place them where we ourselves stood at the time of the formation of the Association ; they just come in as we did on organization, without passing any examination?

The President : Of course, I am only speaking of what I think myself. 1 think it would be unwise for us to adopt any other course, or to ask the Government to do anything else ; it would only stir tip opposition.

Mr. <person>Aylesworth</person> I think this is a very important point. It is the first time it has been raised, and I think it would he well it all the members present would make themselves acquainted with that phase of the question, and, of course, it should also be early explained to the Government, that no one practising as an architect would he interfered with, even if they should not come in for several years Of course, we did not contemplate this at first, but time has passed now, and probably more time will pass, so it will be well to keep in view this fact, that everyone now practising will have the same right he would have had a year or two ago. I think the matter should be thoroughly discussed and understood, and I think if the matter were presented to the Government in that light, it might have the effect of hurrying matters tip.

The President It has been placed before the Government in that. light.

Mr. Gregg : It should be a matter of paramount importance with the Association to push this through, for until that word "registered" is struck out we will have accomplished practically nothing. With that object in view, I think it would be well for outside members to use their influence with members of the Legislature in their districts, so that when the matter comes before the House they will be properly acquainted with the nature of it.

Mr. <person>Burke</person> The point with regard to members outside cannot be too strongly emphasized. Members outside of Toronto can approach thirty or forty members of the Legislature where the Association in Toronto can only approach three or four. I think, therefore, that our success in securing this amendment rests largely with the country members, for if they can favorably influence thirty or forty members of the Legislature the thing will go through without any trouble.

Mr. Gordon suggested sending to each member of the Legislature a printed statement to the argument in favor of striking out the word "registered." He thought if this was done it would make the work easier for members of the Association who approached them regarding the change.

The President said that a plain statement of the facts had been prepared for the purpose of forwarding to members of the

Association, but no attempt had been made at any argument in it ; that had been left to those who would approach the members of the Legislature, who being acquainted with them, would he in a better position to judge of the best standpoint from which to present the argument. He feared a printed argument might possibly give rise to some misapprehension.

Mr. <person>Helliwell</person> thought the work of interviewing members of the Legislature could he better carried out by a Committee specially appointed for that purpose, as what was everybody's business often proved to be nobody's business. He would move the formation of such a committee.

The President replied that such a Committee already existed, in the Council of the Association, but it was better the work should he (lone by individual members, Presidents in the districts of the members of the Legislature it was desired to influence, and who, by reason of that fact, could appeal to them more forcibly than a stranger.

Mr. <person>Belcher </person>expressed the opinion that if properly approached the members would offer very little opposition. He had seen the members for both ridings of Peterboro', and also for the County of Victoria, and they had expressed themselves favorably. He thought if each individual member of the Association would put his shoulder to the wheel, very few could be found who would seriously oppose their wishes. He might add that both of the gentlemen he had spoken to were opposed to him in politics, but nevertheless the result had been as he stated.

Mr. Burke added that whereas in a city like Toronto many of the members of the Association were quite unacquainted with their representatives in the Legislature, in the smaller towns it was quite the reverse; probably they met these gentlemen almost every day, and on quite familiar terms. He thought, however, it would be well for a deputation from the Association to wait on the Attorney-General.

Mr. Helliwell explained that he had not meant that members of the Committee he suggested should personally wait on members of the legislature, but rather that it should be their province to ascertain that they were seen by the members of the Association resident in their respective districts.

The President said the opposition which the Association might expect to encounter would arise from the prevalent feeling against close corporations, and instanced the opposition which was last year offered to the Surveyors' Bill. That opposition was engendered by want of knowledge and understanding of the object of the legislation sought, and that knowledge could be best imparted by the members of the Association who had opportunities of meeting with their representatives in the Legislature in their own districts.

Mi. <person>Edwards</person> reminded the Association that the opposition to close corporations was not confined to the Legislative Assembly, but was to be met with in the community generally. If the architects were influential in political circles, and could influence votes, it would go fat to remove any opposition on the part of the legislators.

Mr. Helliwell disclaimed any desire to push his motion ; he thought the publication of the discussion would serve to awaken members to the necessity of taking the requisite action. He would, under the circumstances withdraw his motion.

Mr. Gregg urged the necessity of reaching all the architects in the Province. If the proposed change would have the effect that had been stated on members of the profession outside of the Association it would be well they should know it, and they might assist in making a big push tip the hill. He would suggest a petition, to be signed by all the architects in the Province.

Mr. Burke expressed approval of the last speaker's idea, and, as a member of the Council, he desired to see a large Committee entrusted with the matter, embodying, perhaps, the present Committee of the Council, and as many more members from the Association. He thought there could not be too many interested in the matter.

The President thought Mr. Gregg's suggestion a good one; but notwithstanding that course had been followed before, with reference to the desired change, the Government passed the Act without making the alteration. He thought he was correct in saying that members of the Association in default for fees still remained on the list of members.

The Registrar said nothing had been done towards removing such members' names, and they had been furnished with all matter connected with the present meeting.

Mr. Burke said if the request for the change were signed by every member and every ex-member of the Association, it would disarm all opposition.

Mr. <person>Townsend </person>expressed himself as being in favor of action in the line of Mr. Gregg's proposal ; he would suggest that it be an instruction from this meeting to the Council to consider the advisability of obtaining such a petition.

Mr. Gregg stated that his object was that it might go out from this Convention that it was the desire of those present to secure the co-operation of all the members in the Province, whether they had attended the Convention or not. and whether they had paid their fees or not. He wished to preserve the friendship for the Association of every man who was practising in the Province, and to have it conveyed to them that the Association bore no will against those who for various reasons might have dropped out 

