<doctype type="text">February, 1893 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	27



Mr. <person>Edwards</person> believed that that line of conduct would defeat the objects of the Association. He advocated an adherence to the policy at first proposed, that each member should leave the Convention animated by a determination to influence those with whom he came in contact who were in a position to further the end desired. It Was all Very well, he thought, to be generous and magnanimous, but he disapproved of soliciting the co-operation of' those who had separated themselves from the Association, many of' Whom would stay out under any circumstances he thought the desired object could be attained by other means.

The Registrar said that the question of the proposed change would come before the Legislature at the approaching session. Members of the Government had already been seen by the Council, and had expressed themselves favorably towards the proposed change, although stating their inability to vouch for the opinion of the House on the subject. The matter was probably the most important with which the Convention had to deal, and the course which to him appeared most desirable, was that suggested by Mr. <person>Burke</person>, that the Committee of' resident members should be requested to add to their number, so as to form a large Committee, and that the present discussion should form a portion of their instructions from the Association. If Mr. Burke saw fit to make the motion he would have pleasure in seconding it.

Mr. Burke accordingly moved that five members of' the Association be added to the five members of the Council now constituting a Committee to interview the Legislature with the Object of' preparing for legislation in order to drop the word "registered" from the Act.

Mr. <person>Gordon </person>seconded the motion, and in doing so said that he was very 10th that it should go out that they were prepared to surrender everything at the very outset While fully appreciating the generosity and liberality of the views given utterance to by the President and the very nice way in which he had put things, and also believing that perhaps, in the end, those views might have to be adopted, he still believed that they ought not at the very beginning to be prepared to make that surrender. (Hear, hear.) He thought that in seeking to make confidants of the gentlemen who had elected to remain without the ranks of the Association, and as it were, almost begging of' them to come in, the dignity of the Association would be lowered without accomplishing the object which Mr. <person>Gregg</person> so earnestly desired. He gave that gentleman full credit for the object he had in view, viz., the disarming of opposition, but at the same time did not think it would be effected by such a policy. He thought the instructions of' the Committee should be, first of all, to endeavor to get tile word "registered " struck out of' the Act without agreeing to any conditions, reserving assent to such conditions as a last resort, the supreme object being to get the objectionable word "registered " removed.

Mr. <person>Aylesworth</person> inquired if' there was any number of' the older members of' the profession who were not members of' the Association

The Registrar replied, that, as far as could be gathered from letters he had received, all or at least all but a few of the older members of' the profession were included in the Association.

Mr. <person>Simpson</person> asked if' those who were practising as architects before the inception of' the Act, and had failed to register, could, in the event of' the word " registered" being struck out of' the Act, be debarred from calling themselves architects ?

The President thought they could not, unless the Legislature so provided.

Mr. Burke's motion was then put to the meeting, and carried.



COPYRIGHT AND CUSTOMS DUTIES. 

The President called attention to tile instructions given to the Council last year in regard to copyright, and asked if anyone was sufficiently interested to be desirous of making any remarks on the subject of customs dues.

Mr. Aylesworth remarked that he was so far interested in regard to the latter that lie would like to hear how the proposition was received by the Minister of' Customs

It was explained to Mr. Aylesworth that the information with respect to the reception which the deputation met with was to be found printed in the report.

Mr. Gordon asked if it would not be well to express to the incoming Council the desirability of following up the question during the present year.

The President it is a matter for the Association,

Mr. Gordon moved seconded by Mr. Edwards, "That it is desirable that the matter of' customs dues upon plans etc., of' foreign architects be again brought before the notice of the Canadian Government by the incoming Council." Carried.



GENERAL CONDITION OF THE ASSOCIATION.

The President Some mouths ago the Council had sent out to each member of the Association a request that he would send in any suggestions which occurred to him regarding the better management or working of the Association. The Registrar will now read the replies to that request.

The Registrar having read the letters in question :— Mr. Gordon said, that in view of the many feeling—with the

emphasis on the last syllable—replies, the suggestion embodied in the address of the President as to grading fees was a good one. So far as he could see, the fees could not be very materially reduced without endangering the financial standing of the As-

sociation. In approving of the suggestion in question, he claimed credit for being disinterested, as he would still have to pay the larger amount. He thought the suggested plan of' rating outside members from $10 down to $5 would remove the hardship under which, to judge from the communications received, some of them were laboring.

Mr. <person>N. B. Dick </person>said that it was evident there was much dissatisfaction among outside members and opposition to the fees now charged. He again advocated retrenchment in expenses. He would not like to see a motion passed to reduce the fees to any stipulated amount, but thought the matter should receive from the Council careful consideration, in view of' the desirability of retaining in the Association as many members as possible, instead of having the membership reduced year by year.

Mr. Edwards, speaking of' himself as a "country member," said be did not object to paying $15 as his membership fee, nor did be object to the reduction of the fee to $to if' it would help anyone to do right, but it the reduction was going to help men such as he knew of', who while too poor to pay the fees of the Association were rich enough to offer to give $ 1,000 to procure a $20,000 work of' church alteration, he most decidedly objected, He was quite willing to help those who could not help themselves, but he entertained a decided aversion to helping others to take money out of' his pocket

Mr. <person>Belcher</person> expressed his satisfaction personally with the

existing scale of' fees. He was not aware that any of' the so-called country architects were grumbling at the fees.

Mr. Aylesworth said that in order to test the feeling of' the Convention be would move that the scale of' fees suggested in the address of' the President be adopted by the Association.

Mr. Burke thought that the fact that the older members had to pay the highest fee might in some instances be productive of' hardship.

Mr. <person>Darling</person> said it was evident from the letters read that the matter called for consideration. The Association was yet in need of being fostered and nursed along, and while be did not express any opinion as to whether or not the fees were too high or otherwise, he advocated whatever would best do that. It would be a very great thing if they could stick together until the word "registered" had been got rid of'. He dill not think the question was one which could be disposed of' off-hand at a meeting like the present, but that it would be better left to the Council.

Mr. Gregg thought one objection to the graded fees would be found in the extra labor entailed on the Registrar in keeping an account of the exact length of time members had been in business.. He thought the best thing to be done was to drop the idea of' augmenting the library, and some other things, draw on capital and reduce the fees for one year, hoping that with improving times, and the securing of the amendment, more interest would be manifested in the Association..

Mr. Edwards was opposed to asking Toronto members to pay any more than those outside

The President explained that the scale of fees suggested in his address was prompted by information he had obtained from representatives of different sections to which the membership of' the Association extended. lie thought there was a great deal to be Said in favor of only assessing members in proportion to the amount of' benefit they derived from the Association, To men living in the smaller towns and villages, whose practice was limited, $10 was quite a serious item. He did not, however, think that the reduction would have the effect of keeping men in the Association—there would always be defaulters even if the fee was only one dollar. He thought that on the whole they might congratulate themselves that really very few members were retiring. On the formation of' the Association a great many rushed in and registered, tinder the impression that by not doing so they would lose some right, and, not finding things just as they expected, after a time fell away. Yet, there were 80 per cent. of those who had registered in good standing, so he thought the Association was really in very fair condition.

Mr. Burke suggested that a reduction of the fee by $5 be made all around.

The President said that would leave the Association without an income to meet necessary expenses.

Mr. Gregg thought a less reduction than that proposed by Mr. Burke would suffice, but thought the Association could afford some reduction.

Mr. <person>Baker </person>thought it was not so much a reduction of fees the non-resident members desired as something in the way of a return for them. He thought if meetings could be held three or four times a year, at which papers of interest could be read, and minutes published in pamphlet form, it would be regarded as some return for the fees.

Mr. Belcher agreed with the last speaker, that the periodical reading of interesting and instructive papers, and their distribution among the members who had not the opportunity of hearing them read, would stimulate interest in the Association. The members of the Society of, Engineers received two reports a year, which contained a large amount of' very valuable matter.

Mr. Gordon said there seemed to be some misapprehension existing in the minds of non-resident members as to the benefits derived by resident members from the Association. He in common with other architects in Toronto, belonged to three distinct organizations. As members of this Association, resident archi

