<doctype type="text">

	38	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	March, 1893



of this combination of construction by other than American architects, as it was purely an American system. He could not but think there were weak points about it, owing to the combination of vertical iron work and masonry, of which the one would settle more or less, and the other would not. Then, in regard to the curtain walls, he noticed there was a twelve inch wall, (brick and a half) carried on a beam, about 15 feet square of masonry he thought the support for that wall at the beam was insufficient, and did not see what was to prevent it tumbling out. It might he tied more or less, but it seemed to him a weak method of construction; either iron or masonry alone might be all right in themselves, but he (lid not see that they would always hold together. He had always found weakness in that kind of construction.

Mr. <person>Paull </person>thought the expansion and contraction of the iron under varying temperatures would affect the walls in some degree, and necessarily weaken them.

Mr. <person>Belcher</person> instanced the erection, with which he was connected, of a fireproof building in Liverpool some fifty years ago. It had been thought the effects of the expansion and contraction would be prejudicial, and very careful notes were made. The building bad Outer walls of cut stone, and brick and cement internally. The walls were supported by eight sectional cast-iron columns, and were five stories in height. The girders were cast iron, trussed with wrought iron, and brick filling springing from the flanges of the girders. The observations did not reveal the slightest appearance of crack due to contraction or expansion. Of course there were not in England the extremes of temperature to be found in this climate.

Mr. Paull said that whereas the variation in temperature in England was not more than 50 degrees, here it would be as much as 120, which must be considered in making any such comparison as Mr. Belcher had instituted.

The Registrar said that from what he had read of iron construction in the United States the objection had been found to exist there, and that iron and brick were not built together now, but the construction was a skeleton of iron entirely.

Mr. <person>Darling</person> said he noticed in the <building>Canada Life building</building>, the walls of which were quite equal to carrying the building unaided, a number of upright iron columns were built into them.

Mr. <person>Burke</person> said the <building>Freehold Loan building </building>was constructed in the same way, and also a new building at the corner of the market (Branch Bank of Commerce).

Mr. Darling questioned the utility of such a practice, and condemned it as bad construction. He thought it distinctly a loss.

Mr. Burke thought it a waste of material.

Mr. <person>Power</person> thought it might be as a horizontal tie.

Mr. Burke said of course that was not the difficulty in the paper under discussion, which gave the different systems. In that case there would be no contraction or expansion in the columns, the carrying power of that would be so slight as to be scarcely appreciable in the joint it would form in the brick work. In the other way, where it was carried independently altogether, then the walls were increased so that they carry their weight practically there would be no shrinkage in that, but moving up and down inside, there might he a question about that.

Mr. <person>Aylesworth</person> thought the variation in a building too feet high would be considerable.

The President said, that as Mr. Burke had stated, what had been read was not a regularly prepared paper, but a letter written to Mr. Burke regarding this system of construction. The system was the outcome of special requirements in American cities and could not well be compared with work done in Canada or the old country. The growth of American cities rendered necessary the erection of these enormously high buildings, and as a result this steel construction with curtain walls had been developed in New York and Chicago ; especially the latter, where, despite its great area, the business center was somewhat congested. When the development began, it was soon found more economical to run up 13, 14 or 20 storeys. A building which consisted of seven or eight storeys was built, which was found not to pay as large interest as it ought, and it was taken down and replaced by one ten or twelve storeys in height. The first building was a steel construction, with nothing more or less than a 4 1/2 inch casing of pressed brick outside, and a curtain wall of some other brick inside. He remembered seeing those bricks being fastened at intervals with copper wire

to upright angle irons, to stay this wall. With regard to the question of temperature affecting iron or steel construction, he did not think that entered into consideration at all, because, in a building the iron work is subject to practically the same temperature all the year round, and there is very little of it exposed to the extremes of heat and cold, as it is nearly all covered. In regard to shrinkage, between the two systems there must be some shrinkage, but it was reduced very considerably by the use of cement instead of the ordinary mortar. He understood there was a shrinkage of inch in twelve feet of first-class brick wall; after the building had been up and settled to a limited extent there would be that shrinkage in the course of time. Of course that was considerable, but he was inclined to attribute it entirely to the use of ordinary mortar, and believed where the buck was laid in cement there was practically very little shrinkage. It was evident that whatever shrinkage there was must accommodate itself in some way or other, because the important fact remained that the buildings had not developed any serious defects ; and theorizing was of little benefit so long as the practical outcome showed the plan of construction to be serviceable. There had been a great deal of discussion in papers devoted to such matters on this subject, but he could not tell just where to lay his hand on the information at present. The architectural appearance of a building, of course, was another question, but that, as a rule, was not considered in this class of buildings to any great extent ; they were required for a certain purpose, and it was incumbent upon the architect to do the best he could under limitations. After all, the buildings were to all intents and purposes, in a sense, the works of engineers rather than architects.



<article title=" FRENCH DECORATIVE ART " author="Elliott, W.H.">

FRENCH DECORATIVE ART.

By W. H. Elliott



IT is interesting to study the different periods of French art in connection with, and as they reflect the scenes and characters intimately associated with them. One might construct a partial history of the time from a careful analysis of the adornments of the palaces and mansions of the chief actors in the stirring scenes of last century in French political life. Passing over the earlier periods of <person>Henri Deux</person>, <person>Francois Premier </person>and <person>Louis treize</person>, we come to that of <person>Louis Quatorze</person>, a man who united a real desire to revive true art feeling with a debased and voluptuous mind. Progressing with the rise and degradation of his Court, one is struck with the gradual development of the renaissance to a high pitch of perfection, and a gradual descent to a florid and meretricious travesty upon it. The reigning beauty in many cases exerted a marked influence on the work executed during her regime, and her Original station in life might very easily be guessed from the decorations she indulged in. What is remarkable, however, is the originality and attractive character of most of the work. The delicacy of the decorations during the reign of <person>Louis Quinze </person>tells us of advance in refinement and a gradual abandonment of the virile renaissance in favor of the lighter and effeminate Italian styles. There is not apparent the same love of art for art's sake, but instead the gratification of the whims and fancies of a court that existed for the bubble pleasures of the hour. This period of dilettantism gave place to the pure and unaffected family life of <person>Louis Seize</person>, a bright spot of sunshine in French history, around which was hovering the storm of popular frenzy that had been brewed by Louis' profligate predecessors. The decoration shows itself in garlands of flowers, rustic scenes and other pastoral touches, especially in <building>La Petit Trianon</building>, the miniature palace of the unhappy <person>Marie Antoinette</person>. At the fall of the curtain on this tragic period, and following the accession of the great Napoleon, a remarkable change is seen in the houses of the nobility. Military rule produces severity in art as in other things, and we find the style of the First Empire beautiful, chaste, pure—but always severe. To-day there is a great revival of all these periods, and we have the fortunate advantage of choosing the best from each of them.





In working with copper pipe a difficulty is often met where lengths must be jointed to valves or fittings by means of flanges, because the joint between the cast flange and the rolled pipe cannot be made perfect. A device



to mitigate this evil recently forms the flange casting with projecting lugs which comes up around the outside of the pipe, and thus increases the surface for the adhesion of the brazing material.

