<doctype type="text">

March, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	37



through the BUILDER wall at level of supporting girders, and fig. 19 a horizontal section at level of lattice girder carrying floor beams.

The following extracts are from the N. Y. Building Law, and may be of interest

'Every building used as a store, factory, warehouse, or any other manufacturing or commercial purpose, shall be of sufficient strength in all its parts to bear safely upon every superficial foot of its surface one hundred and fifty pounds in addition to the weight of the materials composing the said floor.

Good, solid, natural earth shall he deemed to safely sustain a load of tons to the superficial foot, or as otherwise determined by the superintendent of buildings. The width of the footing courses shall be at least sufficient to meet this requirement.

The safe bearing load to apply to good brick work shall be taken at

Eight tons per superficial foot when good lime mortar is used; eleven and one-half tons per superficial foot when good lime and cement mortar mixed is used fifteen tons per superficial foot when cement mortar is used.

All cast iron, wrought iron or rolled steel columns shall be made true and smooth at both ends, and shall rest on iron or steel bed plates, and have iron or steel cap plates, which shall also be made true, All iron or steel trimmer beams, headers and tail beams, shall be suitably framed together, and the iron girders, columns, beams, trusses, and all other iron work of all floors and roofs shall be strapped, bolted, anchored and connected together and to the walls, in a strong and substantial manner. Where beams are framed into headers, the angle irons which are bolted to the tail beams, shall have at least two bolts for all beams over 7" in depth, and three bolts for all beams 12" and over in depth. and these bolts shall not be less than 3/4" in diameter. Each one of such angles or knees, when bolted to girders, shall have the same number of bolts as stated for the other leg. The angle iron in no case shall be less in thickness than the header or trimmer to which it is bolted and the width of the angle in no case shall be less than 1/3 the depth of beam, excepting that no angle knee shall be less than 2 1/2" wide, nor required to be more than 6" wide.

All wrought iron or rolled steel beams 8" deep and under shall have bearings equal to their depth if resting on a wall; 9" to 12" beams shall have a bearing 10", and all beams more than 12" in depth shall have bearings of not less than 12" if resting on a wall. 'Where beams rest on iron supports, and are properly tied to the same, no greater bearings shall be required than 1/3 the depth of the beams.

Iron or steel floor beams shall be so arranged as to spacing and length of beams that the load to be 'supported by them, together with the weights of the materials used in the construction of the said floor, shall not cause a deflection of the said floor beams of more than one-thirtieth of an inch per linear foot of span and they shall be tied together at intervals of not more than 8 times the depth of the beams.

Under the end of all iron or steel beams where they rest on the walls, a stone or cast-iron template shall be built into walls. Said templates shall be 8" wide in 12" walls, and in all walls of greater thickness, said template shall be 12" wide, and such template, if of stone, shall not be in any case less than 2 1/2" in thickness (the thickness of a brick—J.C.B.H.) and no template shall bc less than 12" long.

All brick or stone arches placed between iron or steel floor beams shall be at least 4" thick and have a rise of at least 1 1/4" to each foot of span between the beams. Arches over ft. span shall be properly increased in thickness as required by the Superintendent of buildings; or the space between the beams may be filled in with sectional hollow brick of hard burned clay, porous terra cotta, or seine equally good fireproof material, having a depth of not less than 1 1/4" to each foot of span, a variable distance being allowed of not over 6" in the span between the beams. The said brick arches shall be laid to a line on centers, with close joints, and the bricks shall he wet, and the joints filled with cement mortar, in proportions of not more than two of sand to one of cement by measure. The arches shall be well grouted and pinned, or chinked with slate and keyed.

'[he bottom flanges of all wrought-iron or rolled-steel floor beams, and all exposed portions of such beams below thc abutments of the floor arches, shall be entirely encased with hard burnt clay or porous terra-cotta or with wire or metal lath properly secured and plastered on the underside.

The exposed sides and bottom plates or flanges of wrought-iron or rolled steel girders supporting iron steel or wooden floor beams, or supporting floor arches or floors, shall be entirely encased in the same manner.



Staircases must be of uninflammable material. They are usually made with slate or marble treads in good buildings, and cast iron in the cheaper ones. The strings ate often of cast iron, and sometimes wrought iron with cast-iron brackets bolted on to make a bearing for the treads.

Shop front frames are made of cast iron, and over the breast summer is often placed a protection of cast iron, fig. 20: attached to it by means of lugs screwed to both the covering and the girders.

Fig. 22 is a section through the first storey opening of a large building which has sills and strings of terra cotta. The soft is formed with a wrought-iron plate bolted to the two small beams and painted. This method is quite common here, but if so desired these beams and plate may he kept up to make room for a

soft of terra cotta slabs suspended from the wrought-iron plate which supports the terra cotta architrave on thc face of the walls. The frame of the opening is of cast iron, also the sash.

In referring to the new law regarding " skeleton structures," I omitted to say that no floor beams may rest upon the walls if

or less in thickness. The law reads thus :—" Curtain walls built of brick, built in between iron or steel columns and supported wholly or in part on iron or steel girders shall not be less than 12" thick for 50 ft. of the uppermost height thereof (fig. 21), or to the nearest tier of beams to that measurement, in every building so constructed, and every lower section of 50 ft. or to the nearest tier of beams to such vertical measurement or part thereof, shall have a thickness of 4" more than is required for the section next above it down to the tier of beams nearest to the curb level and then downwardly the thickness of walls shall increase in the ratio prescribed for other foundation walls. When the curtain walls are 20" or more in thickness and rest directly on the foundation walls, the ends of the floor beams may be placed directly thereon, but at or near the floor line of each storey ties of iron or steel, encased in brick work, shall  rigidly connect the columns together."

Fig. 23 is a section of the terra cotta cornice of the <building>St. Bartholomew Mission Building</building>, 42nd street, N. Y. Few cornices are more elaborate. The I beams resting upon the wall are placed over each console. The terra-cotta face and outer edge of moulded soft are hung upon the flanges of the beams running parallel to the walls. The projecting beams are anchored well down the back of wall, sufficient to give at least 3324470f weight of brickwork in excess of the weight of the over-changing cornice.

[Note.—It is but fair to Mr. <person>Horwood </person>to state that the foregoing remarks were not prepared for public reading or publication, but were sent in the shape of a letter to a friend. He kindly consented to their being read at the convention to fill a gap caused by the failure of a member to present a promised paper.—<person>E. BURKE</person>.]



DISCUSSION.

Mr. <person>Paull </person>said the Association was much indebted to Mr. Horwood for sending such a very interesting paper to be read at the Convention, and he had much pleasure in moving that a vote of thanks be accorded to that gentleman. After expressing a hope that the paper and accompanying drawings would be reproduced in the CANDIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Mr. Paull pointed out as a difficulty in regard to these very high buildings, which did not seem fully explained, that, although there might be no trouble about the foundation for its support so long as you were not cramped for room, if a building 100 feet square were erected closely adjoining another property where you could not go beyond the limit of your own ground, it would not be possible to get that proper support for the angles which could be secured when there was a large area of ground surrounding it, and the base could be extended to a considerable distance. Regarding the craze for lofty buildings which was characteristic of American cities, notably Chicago, he thought it had about reached its limit, as regulations were now being enacted to prevent the erection of structures beyond a certain height. He pointed out the danger that existed in these large and lofty buildings, even in themselves fireproof, from the burning of furniture, etc., or being surrounded by other buildings, owing to the difficulty of getting out the large number of occupants who would necessarily be within it. These, he thought, were matters worthy of consideration by architects. He then referred to the developments of recent years in the manufacture of iron for structural purposes, some illustrations of which, by the courtesy of Prof. <person>Gaibraith</person>, they had witnessed in the experiments that had taken place this morning, by which it had been shown that inch iron was capable of sustaining a strain of 50,000 lbs.

Mr. <person>Burke</person> said, in regard to the supporting beam, that it was to him a surprise ; it seemed to be a very weak method of carrying a column that had no support beyond it. It seemed to him that owing to the joint which was there, everything was dependent upon the plate in the top.

Mr. <person>Belcher</person> thought if the plates and girders were reinforced it was very much stronger than work carried through continuously, because the angle irons at the joint were double.

At the request of the President, Prof. <person>Galbraith</person> then explained, pointing out on the drawings some features of the construction.

Mr. <person>Aylesworth</person> was interested in knowing what was thought

