<doctype type="text">	40	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	March, 1893

<article title=" THE PLACE OF ARCHITECTURE IN NATIONAL HISTORY " author="Stalker, G.F.">

THE PLACE OF ARCHITECTURE IN NATIONAL HISTORY.

BY G. F. STALKER,



MUCH greater rapidity marks the progress of history-making events, and greater minuteness and accuracy in chronicling the same, in our own time, than in any previous age. We have constantly "a chief among us takin' notes." It would seem as if the minute hand of the modern clock was provided with a fountain pen attachment, and that a faithful record of everything that transpired was most carefully registered for future reference, The daily and weekly newspapers. the monthly arid quarterly magazines, the system of conducting the business of cities and countries, provide for the modern historian am abundance of material that is almost appalling. The situation in this respect. to-day. is a complete reversal of the state of things before the invention of printing; or even later than that, before the use of electricity. Old-time historians had a hard task of it, when, from the scanty material at their command, and the slow process of locomotion and intercommunication, they set about collecting and collating the events of their time. Add to this the laborious method of transcribing their forms, the limited circle who could have access to them, and the most certain feeling that what they had been at so much pains to record would never benefit their own age, and it must be conceded that their occupation had at least none of the outward and visible signs of cheerfulness. And if their reward in their own time was, at the beat, the most meagre, it has not, in all cases, been made up to them in the shape of unstinted posthumous fame and honour ; for as we have waned through their works at school and college, the probability is we have bestowed upon them more maledictions than benedictions as our recompense for their hard and disinterested labors.

But if there is a law of compensation applicable, as some believe, to all things mundane it is to this law that we are indebted for the durability of the materials on which the hooks of the ancients were written, The only perfect code of morals was written on tables of stone. Particular events in thc lives of individuals, tribes and nations have been marked by cairns, pillars, obelisks and oilier memorial erections, Astronomical, mathematical and other discoveries, and historical facts have been cut in everlasting granite. while such writings as required more lengthened space were inscribed with indelible ink on parchments and papyrus prepared to run a race with time. (It is rather a singular coincidence in this connection, that Napier, the inventor of logarithms, worked out his problems on the gardens wall of <building>Merchiston Castle</building>, near Edinburgh), And as the world advanced in age. these records became the subjects of study in the school, and were translated and transcribed indefinitely with more or less care. Naturally enough these translations were not free from errors ; and the originals being almost inaccessible, and in some cases lost, it has been with great difficulty or altogether impossible that a thorough and accurate revision could be made of them. To this extent, therefore, the world has been a loser ; for though nothing that is really good can be altogether lost, it may be shorn of much of its influence and beauty when we possess only a hazy idea of it,

Add to all this the fact that no historian ever yet wrote or could write without a certain bias, and the works of the ancient writers are subject to a considerable discount.

As regards the collection of materials the modern historian is infinitely better circumstanced than his old-time brother, The important occurrences in almost any part of the world may be said to be served up at the breakfast table of every household in civilized countries ; and if we confine ourselves to any particular country. the difficulty that confronts the chronicler is not thc paucity but the superabundance of matter. No need for him to scour the country in order to obtain data and information from every conceivable and inconceivable source, He has more need for the threshing machine than the reaper. So rapidly do events succeed one another, and so continually is the map of the world being remodelled, that it is no easy matter for the modern historian to keep pace with the times, and to separate the chisft from the wheat, so that what he records will be a faithful delineation of the events which really constitute the life of a nation. This, however, has never been accomplished; neither has it ever been attempted. The impossibility of the thing must be apparent to everyone on the slightest reflection,

To obtain anything like a comprehensive idea of a country we must have recourse to many channels of information. Its political life as a rule is recorded with greater minuteness than any other phase of its existence. And it is right that this should be so; for in those chambers where the nation's business is conducted, its laws are framed, and thc multitude of interest affecting its internal and external affairs are brought forward and dealt with; so that, from the manner in which these things are done, we cam form a very fair conception of thc general character of a people. But though in the political arena there is, or there should he, nothing untouched which properly belongs to a nation's vitality. or which indicates its progress or retrogression. it would be absurd in the extreme to imagine that, within thc limits of this one expression of national existence we have a full and complete portrait of the nation itself. The industries of the people, whose name is legion, can only be guessed at or catalogued by thc laws which are made affecting them. But their extent, their application, and the manner in which they are conducted, all, in fact. that really constitutes the industries themselves, can only be understood or appreciated by reference to sources outside the political sphere altogether. And it is quite clear that written descriptions of the industries, amusements, and the general pursuits and occupations of a people must, in most cases, be inadequate; and to a stranger to the country, or even to the future generations of the country such descriptions will inevitably be, to a great extent, cloudy or incomprehensible.

'We have proof of this when we call to mind such points in the history of

ancient peoples as have only come down to us in the works of contemporary writers. In connection with these we find the savants of our own time in a chronic state of disagreement with one another; amid as time goes on the old writings are subjected to a process of re-translation, or the translations of a former age to a process of revision. Albeit, the one desire which animates all the scholars, is to obtain, in modern language, an exact account of the events which took place, and the circumstances connected with them, n ancient times.

In cases, however, where buildings were erected for any specific purpose, we are not dependent upon descriptions. The language of architecture is a universal language, and needs no such translations as are necessary in written documents. The accounts which they record are true and unbiased, and cams, therefore, be in all cases relied upon. This, of itself, is of immense importance, which is greatly enhanced when we keep in view the fact that, in ancient times, special training was prescribed for such as shrewd that they had natural endowments or qualifications for making architecture or any of the arts their profession in life. The practice of art was, by the Egyptians particularly, considered as one of the highest religious avocations in which man could be engaged, and without this special training, which consisted chiefly of the study of music and forms, no one was allowed to practice it lest they should be guilty of profanity or sacrilege. But even when such a rigorous system was not adopted to ensure its purity and development, architecture has, in all ages, found mets of the highest attainments and the purest thoughts and aspirations to devote their lives to its study amid practice.

The sentiment which at first induced men to commemorate events by the erection of cairns and pillars prevails to-day, only in a somewhat more pretentious form. It may be said that such erections are not now so monumental as utilitarian. . In most cases this is a great advantage. Our memorial halls, institutes, hospitals, fountains and the like, may serve a very useful purpose, while they carry out the same feeling which has from the first animated our race. There is an inseparable. although it may be an indefinable, connection between an intangible historic event and an edifice to commemorate it; so that the milestones of history are being constantly raised all the world over, marking indisputably the progress or the decadence of nations.

But it is not merely works of a monumental character that give to architecture an historical importance. The ordinary everyday life, the business occupations and the amusements of the people are as clearly marked down in the domestic and civic buildings. In these, until we come to the time of the Romans, we have so few remains, that our knowledge is, of necessity, obtained from such writings as have come down to us; and in whatever written source we may turn for our information we have to confess that the result is disappointing ; whereas, from the Roman era until now, apart from any written descriptions, we are at no loss to understand the manners and customs and the occupations of civilized countries from the buildings which were then erected and are still extant. Our poets have peopled those old and ruined cities with the same old-fashioned, slow-going folk that mused to inhabit them; have set them to work at their old occupations and household duties; have putt their armies in motion against one another, and given detailed accounts of their methods of attack and defence and with such minuteness of description that we might as well be reading an account of contemporary events. Even the distinctive racial characteristics are so strongly marked in their buildings that it is not difficult for the student of architecture merely to fix the date of the erection of a building, but also the race of people who erected it. So that the history of architecture is its reality a history of the world, amid when compared with the sciences which treat of national or racial affinities, dealing, as it does, with thc thoughts and feelings of men in all ages. its sphere is wider and more comprehensive and its utterances more reliable and conclusive, than those of any other science yet known. To the historian, therefore, a knowledge of architecture is of the utmost importance; and on the other hand, to the architect a large acquaintance with history is almost indispensable. In the one case many of the leading points in history about which contemporary writers may give different and contradictory accounts, can be tested amid set at rest, by reference to the inflexible testimony of brick and stone. In the other ease the purpose for many features and details of buildings can be explained by hints or more lengthy descriptions of usages and customs which have long since become obsolete.

And as future generations will judge of the position which nations in the present day occupy in the civilization of the world by their architectural achievements, as much as, if not more than any other evidence, a most important responsibility is laid upon the shoulders of every architect. Unfortunately the same spirit which animated the architects in those times when the art was at its best does not seem to exercise dominion in the minds of those oh our time. Neither are we influenced by surrounding circumstances to the same extent. We are too much inclined to imitate amid reproduce what has already been done before, and that too, unhappily, without any very nice discrimination between what was good and what was bad in old examples. We arc sometimes, also, inclined to forget that the design for a building for any particular purpose should have a very close relationship to that purpose and give unmistakeable indications of it, In this respect we are placed at a great disadvantage as compared With the ancients. There is practically no limit to the purposes for which buildings are required; and 'as in most cases these objects are peculiar to one time, and were never dreamt of in bygone ages, an opportunity is here afforded which should be kept in view.

It is frequently said by men who ought to know better, as they look at

