<doctype type="text">	March, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	35



called in to fix a 1 1/4 inch iron rod under each beam, joined by nuts and washers to the posts on each side of the building. These rods supported two 2 1/2 inch iron struts about 12 inches long', set at equal distances under the beams. On the evening of the accident it appears that the people present assembled altogether in one part of the room upstairs directly over one of these beams. The iron rod beneath snapped close to one of its washers at the side of the hail, and the whole floor gave way. There was no flaw in the iron as reported, but the weight on the rod was excessive. As the upper room was not half filled at the time, the accident was plainly the result of ignorance on the part of those who carried out the alterations in the building. Fortunately the results were not so serious as they might have been. 'We trust the accident will serve as a lesson to those who have to do with altering existing buildings or erecting new ones.



THE <assoc>Canadian Society of Civil Engineers </assoc>took a very important step at its last meeting in adopting a resolution moved by Mr. <person>Alan Macdougall</person>, asking for a committee to consider the present status of the profession. This points to an ultimate closer bond amongst the members, and the formation of what will be practically a close profession. From the tenor of Mr. Macdougall's remarks at the meeting, the intention seems to be to have one society for the whole Dominion rather than provincial societies such as now exist in our medical, legal and land surveyors' and other corporations in the several provinces. This subject will be found to be surrounded by many obstacles which will require the most careful attention and deliberation. The interests of practitioners who are not now members of that society, although belonging to English and American, must be carefully weighed. Provision must he made to acknowledge those who are now enjoying a well earned and honorable rest; and considerations granted in view of necessity arising for the consultation of engineers on special subjects who may not be residents of the Dominion. The idea which prevails that this movement is aimed at making every engineer pass an examination, or to admit to practice only such men as now belong to the society, and as soon as they fall into arrears cut off their license, is we are confident, erroneous. We doubt not it will be to the advantage of employer and employed to have a code of professional ethics, and if the members will respond heartily to the circular which has been addressed to them, the object will likely be attained.



<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS." author=""> ILLUSTRATIONS.



SHOPS AND OFFICES, CHAPEL LANE, BRADFORD, ENG.; RESI



DENCE AT BRADFORD, ENG.—<person>F. M. RATTENBURY</person>,



ARCHITECT, VANCOUVER, B. C.



The large building is erected of fine warm buff sandstone, and is so designed that the fine detail of the whole building is observable from the street. The residence is built of stone and brick, with cement and half timber work introduced.

ILLUSTRATIONS ACCOMPANYING PAPER ON "SOME OBSERVATIONS ON FIREPROOF BUILDING IN NEW YORK," BY



<person>J. C. B. HORWOOD</person>, IN THIS NUMBER.



ROAD AND CLUB HOUSE FOR THE HAMILTON JOCKEY CLUB.—



JAS. BALFOUR, ARCHITECT, HAMILTON.



PORTRAITS OF OFFICERS OF THE <assoc>TORONTO BUILDERS'



EXCHANGE.

</assoc>

LEGAL DECISIONS.

<article title=" LEGAL DECISIONS " author="">

It has been held in England that a barbed-wire fence next to the public way is a nuisance and the owner of same is liable for any damage happening to the public.

The master in ordinary at Toronto has given a judgment holding that where a mortgagee sells under power of sale subsequent lien holders are shut out.

An appeal has been dismissed against the judgment of Mr.  Justice Rose, who held that a corporation was not liable for damages for injuries caused through a horse becoming frightened at a hammer of a pile driver used by their contractor on the highway.

It has been held in a recent lien case tried in the Toronto courts that if at the time of registration of the lien nothing is due to the contractor, there can be no lien, and that giving priority to a lien is not equivalent to enacting that the owner shall pay it whether the percentage has become payable or not.

<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE

" author="">

CORRESPONDENCE

Letters are invited for this department on subjects related to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must be accompanied by the name arid address of the author, not necessarily for publication The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]





DECORATION OF THE LEGISLATIVE CHAMBER AT

TORONTO.



TORONTO, March 10 1893.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—I have recently had an opportunity of inspecting one of the most ambitious pieces of decorative work yet attempted in Canada. I refer to the legislative chamber of the new Parliament Buildings in this city. While I cannot but admire the courage which prompted a departure from orthodox methods, it nevertheless appears to me that the idea of boldness of coloring has in this instance been carried a step too far. I would be pleased to know to what extent this opinion is shared by your readers.

STUDENT OF COLOR.





ORGANIZATION OF CANADIAN BUILDERS.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—The views expressed on the above subject by Mr. <person>J. L. Phillips</person>, Secretary of the <assoc>Toronto Builders' Exchange</assoc>, in the January number of your paper will, I think, be endorsed by all builders who have the interest and welfare of the craft at heart, the only wonder being that steps have not been taken, ere this, to bring about a closer relationship between the members of the several trades connected with, and incidental to building operations.

Canada is far behind in this matter. No doubt the unsettled state of the trade, and many of the inconveniences which builders arc suffering from, would not exist if the several associations in the country relating to this line of business were brought more into touch one with the other and amalgamated under one National or Provincial Association.



Such a step would not only strengthen the trade as a body, but the experience of fellow craftsmen in all parts of the country could be obtained, which would be capable of actual individual application with good results.

The members of the building trades in Canada must be envious of their American friends meeting this month at the twelfth annual convention of the <assoc>National Association of Builders</assoc>, which promises so much good to all concerned. There is no doubt that such an Association in Canada, besides bringing about the improvements named by your correspondent would teach the several members of the trade the best methods of securing the establishment of equitable and profitable business conditions and would act as a strong security against unfair legislation and undesirable workmen, whether employers or employees.



It is hoped that now the subject is brought forward it will not be allowed to drop, but that the several Associations interested will come forward with their views and some steps be taken which will bring about a unity in this important department of business that will strengthen its position and place it on a more satisfactory and promising footing.

Yours truly,

AN INTERESTED BUILDER.



<article title=" PUBLICATIONS " author="">

PUBLICATIONS.

The Cosmopolitan Magazine offers fifteen hundred dollars, in four prizes of one thousand dollars, three hundred dollars, two hundred dollars, and one hundred dollars, respectively, for the water colors which shall he chosen by a commit tee from such drawings as may be submitted by the artists of

the United States or Europe on or before twelve o'clock on the first day of December, eighteen hundred and ninety-three. Thc subjects are to be selected from the life of Christ, taking those scenes which teach in the highest forms the lessons of love, patience, humility and forbearance, with fidelity, as far as may be, to the actual surroundings and conditions of the period. The treatment should be calculated for single page reproduction in the Cosmopolitan in size five by eight inches. The subjects to be suitable, as far as possible, for use in stained glass for church or cathedral. The originals for which prizes are awarded will become the property of The Cosmopolitan.



FIREPROOF PAINT.—Seventy pounds of zinc white, 39 lbs. of air slaked lime, 50 lbs. of white lead, 10 lbs. of sulfate of zinc. Mix the zinc white and lime together and grind in elastic oil, then add one gallon 35 water glass, then the white lead and sulfate of zinc. Stir well. This will make white paint. If a shade is required add the necessary color.

