<doctype type="text">

April, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER



streets. On these streets there are at present a large number of small shops which it is believed will before many years revert to residence purposes. Two principal causes are at work tending to bring about this change. One is the introduction of rapid electric street railway transit, by means of which residents in the outlying districts of the city can he transported to the business center within an interval of a few minutes. These facilities for dealing at the larger down town establishments is likely to be taken advantage of to the detriment of the smaller business concerns on the less important thoroughfares. The second cause is the recent development of a few large establishments where goods of almost every class are sold under one roof. These concerns will certainly wipe out of existence a very large number of the smaller stores. It is estimated that one such establishment already in existence in Toronto, is doing the trade which formerly was divided amongst 500 small stores. These changes must seriously affect. the value of a large amount of property now used for business purposes.



NOT more than five or six years have elapsed since the manufacture of pressed bricks was commenced in Canada. In that brief period, however, the manufacturing firms have multiplied from one to half a dozen, and the process has been perfected to a wonderful degree. In point of hardness, closeness of grain and perfection of form, the pressed bricks at present being manufactured in Canada will compare favorably with those in use anywhere on the continent or abroad. They are also being produced in a pleasing variety of color. In view of the success which has been achieved by the manufacturers, it is with much regret that we have observed the otherwise excellent effects obtained by the use of this material, well-nigh destroyed in the case of some important buildings recently erected by the efflorescence or lime-like exudation which, working its way through the pores of the bricks forms a deposit on the surface. So detrimental is this to the appearance of the building, that unless means can he found to avoid it, architects will no doubt feel compelled to cast about for some other material. We learn that the possibility exists of determining in advance of their use, whether or not bricks will effloresce, and at the royal testing station of building material at Berlin, the test has been applied. The process is described as follows: The bricks are gradually heated to the boiling point in a waterbath, and are then suddenly immersed in cold water. They are boiled for one hour in a 16 per cent. solution of common salt and frequently cooled as before. They are again boiled half an hour in 5 per cent. soda lye. They are further boiled half an hour in the same solution, with the addition of per cent. of ammonium sulfate. They are then boiled half an hour in a solution containing 2 per cent. blue vitriol and to per cent. common salt. Fragments of the brick are placed for 75 hours in 3 per cent. hydrochloric acid and for 50 hours more in 5 per cent. hydrochloric acid. By further treatment of the fragments with pure 4 per cent hydrochloric acid a fluid clear as water is formed, which, when treated with barium salts, should not show the presence of sulfates which are the cause of efflorescence. These tests determine the quality of the brick as well, and none which fail to stand the test should he allowed to enter into the construction of a building. We hope that the manufacturers of pressed brick will see the advisability of endeavoring to overcome the objectionable feature of their material to which we have referred.



By order of their leaders seventeen hundred carpenters employed on the construction of the World's Fair buildings have gone on strike. This action was taken because a request for an advance of wages from 33 to 40 cents per hour and the dismissal of all non-union carpenters, met with refusal. The extremity of those upon whom rests the responsibility of getting things in shape for the opening of the Fair five weeks hence, is regarded as the labor agitators' opportunity, and is taken advantage of to the fullest extent. The utter selfishness which under such circumstances prompts the unions to attempt to snatch a slight advantage at the expense of thousands of exhibitors and others who have large business interests connected with the forthcoming exhibition, deprives them of the sympathy which the public would accord to legitimately conducted efforts for the improvement of the conditions of labor. In this connection, mention may be made of decisions recently given by judges <person>Taft</person> and

<person>Ricks </person>of the United States Circuit Court, which are likely to exercise an important bearing upon strikes of workmen employed upon works of a semi-public character. In the case of a dispute between the brotherhoods of locomotive engineers and firemen, and the Toledo, Ann Arbor and <firm>Northern Michigan Railway Co</firm>., Judge Taft granted an injunction restraining the chiefs of these organizations and the engineers and firemen from in any way, directly or indirectly, endeavoring to persuade or induce any employees (If the railway companies whose lines connect with the Ann Arbor not to extend to the said company the same facilities for interchange of interstate traffic as are extended to said companies by other railroads. Eight employees of the company, after the issuing of the injunction, at once resigned their positions on being ordered to take out cars containing Ann Arbor freight. Judge Ricks, on being appealed to, ordered the arrest of these men for contempt of court, and in addressing them said :—"This court does not assume the power to compel you to continue your service to your employers against your will but it does undertake to compel you to perform your whole duty while such relations continue, and does further claim for the purpose of ascertaining whether its orders have been violated, the right to determine when your relation to your employer legally terminated, and when your obligations to observe this order cease." This decision has caused a commotion in labor circles, mass meetings of unionists having been called in New York and other cities to discuss it. Whether or not the conditions upon which it is based would be held to apply to the 'World's Fair dispute is as yet an open question.

<article title=" BRICK PAVING " author="">

BRICK PAVING.

THIS subject has become of great interest in Toronto on account of the City Engineer having recommended that vitrified brick should he used in future for paving the streets of the city. The advantages claimed for this class of pavement are cleanliness, freedom from noise, sanitary perfection through the bricks being non-absorbent, smoothness, with a good foothold for horses, durability, if made with proper materials, and its price, which will compare favorably with other kinds of roadways. A great difficulty in this work is obtaining the necessary uniformity in the hardness of the bricks, which should always be burnt until a homogeneous section is secured throughout each. If this is not (lone, the first frost will determine the interior bricks, and the moisture absorbed by such will freeze the bricks and cause crumbling and cracking through expansion.

In the manufacture of bricks for paving purposes the clay to be used is a very important matter. It should be able to withstand a sufficient amount of heat, without fusing, so as to render the bricks hard and impervious to water; but while so much depends upon its refractory nature, reasonable fluxing agents are necessary to make the clay adhesive. It should also be of shale rock nature, so hard in its bed that blasting becomes necessary to remove it. Silica and alumina should constitute the chief refractory parts, but there should not be an excess of the former, as it possesses no binding properties, and bricks made from such clays are rough, and senacious. Potash, soda, lime, magnesia, iron and other elements will be found in small quantities in clays suitable for pavements, and these impurities give a tendency to fusion according to the amount present. Such ingredients should therefore not exist to any large extent; especially is lime to he avoided, as the heat used in firing the bricks will bring about a caustic lime which will absorb moisture when the bricks are laid as a pavement. Iron will make the clay fusible if over 6 to 10 per cent. of the clay is this metal. It is the presence of iron that changes the colour of the brick from that of those made from ordinary clays, and is therefore easily detected. Fineness of clay is most essential, and when this is the case, care only is needed in the manufacturing process to secure good bricks, that is, provided the clay is sufficiently refractory. Coarse clay will require more heat before vitrifying, but the finer the brick earth is ground, the stronger and harder the bricks will become.

The process of manufacture is a difficult problem, and very different from the usual one of brick making. A system that works successfully in one place, will not prove so elsewhere, on account of the diversities of clays. In no case should admixture be employed.

It would be impossible in this short article to describe all the

