<doctype type="text;ad">	

52   CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER    April, 1893

<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.



Pitch pine beams will shrink in thickness

from 18 inches to 18 1/4 spruce, from 8 1/2 to 8 1/4

white pine, from 12 inches to 11 7/8 yellow pine, a trifle less. Cedar beams will shrink from a width of 14 inches to 13 1/4 elm, from 11 to 10 3/4 and oak from 12 to 11 3/8 inches.



GLASS FROSTING. - -Dissolve Rochelle salts in gum-arabic water let it stand over night. And after cleaning off the glass well, flow the s solution on so that it will not run lay the glass flat if convenient, and when it commences to set take

a pointed stick and dot it in rows to suit the taste put the dots about inches apart. If you wish it colored use. anilines— red, blue or green and

gamboge for yellow or gold color, then flow on a thin coat of damar varnish, and it is finished. NAMES OF NEW COLOrS.— Angelique' is a

pale apple green. Beige really a beige drab  	Casuer ,' a dark beige.	Castile	a bright buff yellow. Coquelicot ," a bright brick red. Diavolo ." a bright cinnamon "Emeralde,' a brilliant emerald green. Floxine ," a brilliant light crimson. Geranium apple geran and red. "Mascol," a medium moss green. Murier," an indefinite moss green. Paradise," a bird of paradise yellow. ' Bivoine," a deep metallic scarlet. "Vareche ,' a dark moss green.

A Good CEMENT. —Dissolve 8 ounces of sugar in 24 ounces of water in a glass flask on a water bath, and to the thin syrup add 2 ounces of slacked lime, keep the mixture at a temperature of about 160 to 165 Fah. for three days, shaking frequently then cool, and decant the clear liquor. Dilute 6 1/2 ounces of this liquor with as much water, and in the mixture steep 16 ounces of fine gelatine for three hours after heating to effect solution. Finally add to the mixture ounces of glacial acetic acid and 15 grains of pure carbolic acid.

ELECTRIC push buttons should be clearly visible on the front door, and the more conspicuous

they can be made without offending good taste

the better. The practice of placing such push

buttons in some obscure place, hidden in the



shadows of the moulding of the door jamb, where



hey can neither he seen nor found in the dark, is a poor one, causing much annoyance which might easily he avoided. The first purpose of a push button is to be useful and this purpose is best served when it is plainly visible and accessible to those desiring to enter the house.— Southern A Architect.



CREDIT VALLEY BROWN Stone

From <firm>Carroll & Vick's </firm>No. 6 Quarry,

Credit Forks, Ont.



SANDSTONE, fine grained, reddish brown. Contains quartz, and a little felspar and mica. The stone is in beds of four feet and under, and can be handled in pieces up to five tons. Quarry 300 yards from Railway.

	Now being used in the "Grand	Seminaire Montreal



WE Also Manufacture



Copper, Galvanized Iron and Painted Steel Shingles and Tiles, Sheet Steel Pressed Brick and other Siding Plates, Galvanized and Painted Pressed Corrugated Iron.

<firm>Metallic Roofing Co. </firm>Steel Lath



The highest standard of test attained by any pure Sandstone in America.



I N confirmation of the fads above stated, we have pleasure in directing your attention to

 the accompanying table, showing the result of the test of our stone, in connection with

the series of tests of building stones conducted in 1892 at the School of Practical Science,

Toronto under the direction of a committee of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>.

By referring to the results of the tests above mentioned, it will be seen that the average

crushing stress of the majority of Canadian and American sandstones is far below that of

ours, the difference in our favor ranging from 75 to 50 per cent.

The Credit Valley Brown Stone, owing to its modest tone, harmonizes beautifully

with red or cream colored brick.

It has been reported that there is difficulty in obtaining Credit Valley Brown Stone. To correct this mistaken notion, we wish to state to architects and the public that we have 40,000 cubic feet of stone ready to ship on the shortest notice, which can be followed up with an unlimited supply. Last year we made extensive additions to our plant and opened



up new quarries and m mines and w 11 supply promptly all orders given to us or our agents.

<firm>CARROLL, VICK & CO</firm>.

Quarries: Credit Forks, Ont.	Office: 84 Adelaide St. West, TORONTO.

I F you have any pipes or boilers uncovered, you are  losing on same at the rate of 80 cents every year on each square foot of surface exposed By having them covered with our Mineral Wood Sectional Correcting

you will save 8511717f this loss. The saving thus effected in fuel will in one year more than pay the cost of covering, which we guarantee to last as long as the pipes. Our covering is the best fuel saver on the market.



MONTREAL AGENT:	<firm>CANADIAN MINERAL WOOL CO, </firm>Ltd.,

	<person>GEOrge A. COWAN</person>	122 Bay Street,	TORONTO

	   Room 23. 204 St. James Street.