<doctype type="text">

April, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS " author="">

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

[Readers are invited to ask through this department for any information which they may require on lines consistent with the objects of the paper. Every effort will be made to furnish satisfactory answers to all such inquiries. Readers are requested to supply information which would assist us in our replies. The names and addresses of correspondents must accompany their communications, but not necessarily for publication.]





Country Builder ": Do you know where I can get patterns for scroll work?

Ans.—There arc few firms who keep these goods. Messrs. <firm>Rice, Lewis & Son</firm>, King St. E., Toronto, can supply you.



T. W. B. :—Are there any other builders' exchanges in Canada except those at Toronto and Winnipeg?

Ans.—We understand there are exchanges at Ottawa, St. Catharines and St. Thomas. Mr. <person>Phillips</person>, Secretary of the Toronto Exchange, might be able to give you further information.



A. B. :—Can you tell me through your columns the best way to stain wood gray?

Ans.—Apply a solution of one part silver nitrate in 50 parts of distilled water. Follow this with a coat of solution of terric acetate until the proper shade is obtained. Do not let this preparation touch the hand.



G. F. S. :—Will you kindly inform me where I may obtain printed instructions and information relating to the competition for designs for the improvement of <building>St. Lawrence Market</building>, Toronto, recently advertised in your weekly edition?

Ans.—We learn upon enquiry that there exists no printed information for the use of architects in relation to this competition. In fact, as we pointed out on a former occasion, the whole matter is in too hazy and indefinite form to warrant architects in having anything to do with it.



"H. E. Gates, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia" I am planning a 3 storey wooden building, the first storey of which is to be used as a concert hall. Please inform me of the best means for supporting the other floors, as I do not wish to use iron columns ? The building is 40 feet wide.

Ans.—-You give no data from which we can gather what the upper floors have to carry But in describing the building as being wooden, you suggest the advisability of spreading the weight of the upper storeys over many points, and that the best form of support would he girders twelve feet on centers or less, as necessary, so that they may be not too deep to form an agreeable beam finish for the ceiling of the concert hall. Another method would be that shown in the accompanying sketch if the partitions on the tipper floor will permit.































Unless very carefully done, with a surplus of strength, it is but an undesirable make shift.



"Young Plasterer": From what cause does Plaster of Paris set so firmly when water is applied to it?

Ans.—Plaster of Paris derives its name from the fact that it was first made for commercial uses from a natural deposit of gypsum found near Paris. This substance is a sulfate of calcium, containing two molecules of water in combination. When it is heated to between 300 anti 400, a considerable portion of this combined water is driven off and a friable mass results, which, when ground in suitable mills to a fine powder, forms the plaster of Paris of the trade. The "setting," or hardening, of burnt or calcined plaster of Paris is due to its disposition to reunite with the water of which it has been deprived.

When mixed with water, the mass promptly combines with a sufficient portion thereof to make up for that which it has lost, and solidifies to a hard mass, having the composition of the original hydrated sulfate of calcium from which it was made. In undergoing this metamorphosis, the mass expands somewhat, and hence derives one of its most desirable properties for taking casts of objects, as it completely fills the mold and renders a very sharp impression. Care must be observed in burning the plaster not to over-heat it, as by this means a portion of the product becomes completely deprived of its combined water, and the resulting mass loses more or less completely its quality of setting with water.

<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE " author="">



CORRESPONDENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects related to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications most be accompanied by the name arid address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]





Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR Sir,—I want to use metallic ceilings in two school buildings to be built in Deloraine and Melita, and would like to get the address of some Canadian dealer in this material, but see none in your paper. Can you give me the address of any one?

<person>W.	T. C. SHILLINGLAW</person>,



Brandon, Man.

[The <firm>Metallic Roofing Co</firm>. and Messrs. <firm>Tucker & Dillon</firm>, Toronto, can supply you.—En. C. A. & B.]



<assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB.

</assoc>Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—At the last meeting of the Toronto Architectural Club, a motion to adjourn sine die was passed. This brings to a close for the present, at least, the work of this organization. Most of its older members, who were active in the preceding seasons, now devote their energies to the Ontario Association of Architects, while many of its younger members find their evenings fully occupied with the classes held at the Technical School. Thus it is that the attendance at the Club's meetings during the past year has been reduced to a very insignificant number. To many it may seem a pity that circumstances thus force the old Club to retire, but with such a small membership list, and the consequent small financial support, it is impossible to retain proper rooms, etc.

It is a pleasure to note that the Club retires honorably, having paid all its debts, and having a few dollars over, which have been voted to the O.A.A.

As one who has taken a great deal of interest in this Club, and who believes that members of our profession should do what they can to make their work as much a pleasure as possible, may I ask that the architects of Toronto take into their serious consideration the problem of providing suitable club rooms next winter for all classes of the profession, where magazines and papers may be found, and lectures, etc., may be held.

Yours truly,

<person>ALFRED H. GREGG</person>,

President T.A.C.





TENDERING FOR WORK.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR, -~--Seeing you have started a department for correspondence in your paper, could you find room for these few lines on the present system of tendering for works, which is a subject of vast importance to the contractors of Canada ? It is almost an impossibility for contractors of reputation and ability to compete against the outsiders in the business, who give prices for work far below the actual cost, or the fair estimate of an architect. What is the result ?—the work, if completed, is done in a very defective manner, the architect suffers, the trade is given a bad name, and no one is satisfied.

I believe in fair competition between reliable firms, and although the architect should have "the right not to accept the lowest or any tender," yet it would be better for all parties if he would advise his client to refuse prices that are too buy, as well as suggest the non-acceptance of fig tires that are too high. This may in some cases be a difficult matter, but I think architects could use their influence more in this direction than they sometimes do.

EQUITY.

