<doctype type="text">	

46	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	April, 1893



different methods used in the States to make paving bricks, but a very common one is by using, with modifications the plant commonly employed for tile making. Taking one case in the United States as a general example where a brick-maker burns out 1,600 bricks an hour, the system in vogue is along the lines referred to. The clay from the output is delivered to a Blake, when making this kind of brick, and finished with a dry-pan crusher. It then passes to a tempering machine, and is then forced through the desired mold in long lengths, afterwards being cut with a wire by hand to its proper size. The bricks are then removed to a drying house and left until ready for burning. The ordinary kilns are not used, the bricks being packed close together in cylindrical kilns with hemispherical tops giving a down-draught. They are burnt from 70 to 8o hours in a heat sufficient to cause tin to melt and copper to run together. It is here care should be taken that the bricks do not become fusible.

When laid on a good concrete foundation, and the joints well filled in with pitch or tar, a vitrified brick pavement will stand a crushing strain of over 8,000 pounds to the square inch. The result of some tests in the United States from paving laid with bricks, and others laid with ashpaltum blocks, limestone, or granite are very interesting. The samples were weighed before and after being laid and tested, which was carried out by means of a waggon going over the pavements sufficient to amount, it is supposed, to 9 1/2 years traffic. It was found from this performance, that the abrasion of the brick paving was 9, the asphaltum blocks mins limestone, 10, while on the granite it was hardly noticeable.

Turning to the cost of this pavement, if used in Toronto, we find that unless the Canadian brick merchants can manufacture good material, the cost of obtaining same from the United States, would bring the price far above that of asphalt. But, if the necessary brick can be made here, such paving laid on a proper concrete foundation should not cost more than $2.30 per yard super., and if a sand instead of a concrete foundation is used, then the price should not be above $1.50 per yard super., but this latter class of work cannot be recommended where traffic is heavy. The present price of asphalt is about $2.60, and cedar block paving can be laid for 70c. to 8oc. per yard super. The above prices for brick paving therefore compare very favorably with these. As already stated some of the brick merchants in the suburbs of Toronto are putting in the necessary apparatus for making paving bricks, believing that they have the proper clay in their land to turn out good, durable and uniform material. If this is so, and provided the process of manufacture can also be perfected, there is no reason why vitrified bricks should not be largely used throughout Canada for paling purposes.

<article title=" VAULTING " author="">

VAULTING.

IT is interesting to trace the methods of vaulting used among masons at different periods in order to meet the requirements of the architecture of their respective times. This is not only a matter of antiquarian interest, but is an essential knowledge to those studying the art of stone cutting, because, where circumstances will allow, thc architectural buildings of the present day follow the styles and orders introduced by the ancient architects.

We learn from ruins still existing that the construction of vaulting was known in the earliest periods, vaulted arches being found amongst the ruins of Nineveh. There is no doubt, however, that this class of work was not employed to any great extent before the Roman era, and even in buildings at this time there is no evidence of scientific knowledge of stone cutting. For instance, if two vaults, of the same height at the crown, but of different spans, are to be made to intersect each other, the method now used is to get the profile of the groin by ordinates this does, not however appear to have been practised by the Romans. Their way of carrying out such work was to start the springing of the lesser arch, making the sections of both vaults of different radii, which left the groin a wavering line. The crowns of these arches were always level, and this prevailed until more complex forms of arches were introduced. The early Norman vaulting was carried out on the same principle as those existing at Rome, being distinguished by its semi-circular arches. This changed however with the introduction of rib work, which then consisted of a frame work of light stone ribs, filled in with courses

of stones cut to fit the spaces between the ribs. Although this arrangement was in common use at the time, yet some of the buildings of that age show the introduction of the modern method of making the profile of the groin dependent on the form of the principal arch. During thc middle ages ribbed vaulting may be said to have been divided into three forms:

(1)	Plain ribbed vaulting, which sometimes had ridge ribs, but was frequently without. These arches were often decorated with paintings, and were much used in French and Italian churches of that time.

(2.) Lierne vaulting, in which the ribs were very numerous, and did not always change the direction of the vaulting surface as in the previous class. These arches, often richly decorated, required a thorough knowledge of projection, and although the work at that time was not probably done by any regular geometrical method, yet the natural power the masonic artists had of conceiving in their mind what they wished to carry out, greatly helped them in their work.

(3.) Fan vaulting seems to have been confined entirely to England. The main ribs in this work had all the same curvature, and very often this class of masonry was found alongside lierne vaulting in the same building. The complex forms of this class became so numerous, the panels so small, that it was found better to build all the vaulting by jointed masonry the panels being sunk into the undersides of the archways instead of being bedded on to the ribs. Henry VII Chapel at <building>Westminster Abbey </building>is built entirely in this way.

Stone cutting, as an art, attained its greatest development in the 15th century, but although the work gained as large amount of perfection in Italy as elsewhere, yet the Roman rounded style of vaulting as mentioned, was never entirely superseded. The great master-piece of the Italian work in vaulting is beyond a doubt, the dome of <building>St. Peters</building>, at Rome, although defective in form in some points. It was built at the close of the 15th century from the designs of <person>Michael Angelo</person>, and the work is an acknowledged specimen of thc successful application of stone cutting to domes.

During the building of this cathedral a celebrated French architect, <person>Philip De Lume</person>, published the first book containing a complete system of lines for stone cutting. From the opinion expressed, it appears that ribbed vaulting had fallen into disuse, but he acknowledges the extraordinary evidences of mechanical skill displayed in vaulting executed by thc Italian masons, to which subject reference has already been made.

There is little worth noticing in the progress of thc history of this art from that time to the present age, most of the works of stone architecture being copies in construction from the old schools. The vaulted roof of <building>St. Paul's Cathedral</building>, London, shows the architect's thorough knowledge of his work, but the building has only a wooden dome, which is merely a picturesque addition to the structure, not an essential part of the construction. Although there were no remarkable changes, yet masonic art became a necessary study for the architects of the day, and geometrical projection formed an important part of education in the profession.

It would not be proper to close this short historical sketch of vaulting without referring to the introduction of oblique Arches for skew bridges. They have come to be used only during the last thirty years, and no doubt the development of railways made a necessity for such bridges for before they were introduced, the railway tracks had to be so arranged that all rivers and roads crossed at right angles which meant much unnecessary expense.

To-day, in Canada and elsewhere, the mason does not obtain many opportunities to carry out his art to advantage, but as the country develops and the fine arts become more appreciated and studied, ancient architecture will revive as it has done before; then artistic stone masonry will take its place again among the chief architectural features of our large buildings.



The second copper covered statue of the group of twenty to adorn the new <building>St. Peters cathedral</building>, Montreal, has been completed by Mr. <person>Grattor</person>. It <person>represents St. John </person>the evangelist.

Three large blocks of granite of an aggregated weight of a little over twelve tons have been shipped from one of the up river quarries to Ottawa to form the base of the monument to be erected in the Parliament grounds, Ottawa, to the memory of the late Sir <person>John A. Macdonald</person>.

