<doctype type="ad;text">

May, 1893	THE CANDIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" LIME AND CEMENT " author="">

LIME AND CEMENT.

THE powder produced from pure and impure limestone by means of heat is called lime or cement, and, as materials used in the masons' and builders' art, they are classified as common or fat lime, hydraulic lime and hydraulic cement. Good lime is in hard lumps, free from cinders, clinkers, much dust, and should form a very smooth paste when slacked. The limestone from which common lime is obtainable is very seldom pure, and contains magnesia, alumina, silica and similar impurities to the amount of from 3 to 10 per cent. The paste it makes is greasy, from which fact it is known as 'fat. It is sometimes called ' "air-time,' as it will not harden unless it is exposed to the air, and, if mixed with water, it can be kept for an indefinite period without loss of its qualities, provided it is kept front contact with the atmosphere.

Hydraulic lime differs from common lime in that it will harden under water, which is in account of its clayey or flinty nature. When burnt it becomes a caustic lime and on being brought into contact with water is hardened, its hydraulically being produced by the crystallizing elements of the clay and flint in the lime. This lime is imported in large quantities from France, but an artificial material of this class can he made by mixing on-burnt clay with common lime or a powdered limestone, burning in the shape of bricks by means of a common kiln, slacking the material in the ordinary way, care being taken that there are no lumps of clay still unburned

Hydraulic cements are of three kinds, viz.: Portland, Rosendale, and Pozzuolana, but the last named is seldom used, as the strength of the cement is much less than others of this class. It, however, is an ancient cement, being used prior to the Roman age, and it was the first cement known to possess the property of hydraulically. Its name is taken front the place where it was first found, viz , Pozzuoli, in Italy.

Rosendale cement, sometimes called " natural" or "American," is found and largely used in the United States. The natural bed of limestones from which this cement is made covers about one-third of the State of New York and other parts of the country, and is of a clayey, magnesium nature, light and quick setting.

Portland cement obtains its name front its resemblance when made in a hardened mortar to stone found on the isle of Portland, off the south of England. It was first made in that country in 1843, and in America in 1874, and is heavy, slow setting and of great ultimate strength. The natural stone from which the original Portland cement is made contains 20 to 22 per cent, of clay and 78 to 8o per cent. of carbonate of lime, and its superiority is increased by the intensity and duration of the heat employed in burning, which is almost to the limit of vitrification. Artificial Portland cement is very largely used, and about nine out of every ten of this class oh cement now in the market are not the genuine article. Some of these cements, however, are equal to the best imported Portland, and with proper care a still better cement might be obtained. It is generally made by mixing in proper proportions clay and chalk. marl or compact limestone, and burning them at a high heat.

The testing of cements is an important matter, as their values vary to a large extent, and the natural properties of one portion of a Cement are liable to differ from another portion, although of the same brand. Particular attention should be paid to the soundness, fineness and strength of a cement. It should he sound, so as not to expand or contract in setting, which is caused by active lime or magnesia being in the material. The presence of such impurities can lie proved by immersing in water some cement mortar with very thin edges, and on examination after say two days, the material



Builders and contractors of Niagara Falls, N. Y., are endeavoring to prevent Canadian contractors from securing contracts on their side of the river.



Messrs. <firm>Taylor Bros</firm>. of the Don Valley Pressed Brick Works, Toronto, have sent two car loads of their brick to Chicago, to lie used in constructing a building in the Canadian Department of the World's Fair.



 <firm>Gilmor & CASEY</firm>		Painters,

Telephone 149.	149	Victoria Street



<firm>Douglas Bros.</firm>

SLATE, TILE AND METAL ROOFERS.

Sheet Metal Work, Metallic Ceilings, Skylights. etc.

Bank, office and vault fittings and furnishings <firm>Geo. F. Bostwick</firm>

<firm>W.J. Burroughes & Co</firm>. contractors steam boilers

124 Adelaide Street West,	-	TORONTO.

Telephone 350

will be found contorted and cracked at the edges. The magnesia is more harmful than the cement, for the latter can be slacked by exposure to the air. Many defects in masonry buildings of recent years have been caused by the hydration of magnesia in the cement. It is well to remember in testing the soundness of cements that the trial should extend over considerable time for some defective material will stand for a period, and then lose its unity and fall to pieces.

Fineness in cement is essential from a point of economy, for the finer the cement the greater will he the surface it will cover. It should also be borne in mind that cement will not crystallize by the addition of water unless it is ground, because the coarse particles have tin binding power. In order to determine the fineness of the material, sieves are employed with a certain number of meshes to the square inch one with 50 is considered a good test, and the cement that passes through is of a recommendable fineness.

The strength of cement is usually determined by submitting a specimen in solid form to a tensile strain, for should it pass this lest the compression will also, as this material is not so strong in tension as in compression The committee of the <assoc>American Engineering Society </assoc>recommend that the tensile stress applied should increase at the rate of 400 lbs. per minute.

There are other properties, such as color and weight, which are often tested when determining the value of cements, but they are not of so much importance as the matters already referred to. Color indicates the difference in the character of the rock and amount of burning. Gray or greenish is considered a good color, while bluish gray indicates a probable excess of lime, and brown the presence of much clay. American cements are peculiar in respect of color, they generally being of a light or dark brown shade;

Weight of cement varies according to the heat given in burning, fineness in grinding and density of packing. The harder a material of this class is burnt the more it weighs. The time a cement takes to set may be also considered a test as to its quality, and one that sets in 30 minutes or fails to commence to do so within three hours, reckoned from the time the water is poured upon the cement should not he used.

<article title=" DUTY ON CEMENT " author="">

DUTY ON CEMENT.

Deputation's representing the manufacturers of Canadian cement and the Canadian importers of foreign cement have recently waited upon the Government with reference to the import duty of 40 cents per barrel. It is the desire of the former that the ditty be allowed to remain as at present, while the latter urge that cement be placed of the free list. The imports of cement into Canada last year amounted to 185,000 barrels, while the amount produced in Canada reached 45,000 barrels. The Canadian manufacturers say that if the duty is retained they will soon be able to supply entirely the Canadian market.



Messrs <firm>Carroll, Vick & Co</firm>., of Toronto, having discovered in abundance on their property at the Forks of the Credit the materials necessary to the production of fire and paving bricks, will shortly enter into these lines of manufacture.

A manufacturer of British Columbia shingles who has recently made a tour of Manitoba, Eastern Canada, and the new England States is quoted as having said that in Ontario people have not yet discovered that it is cheaper to pay a little more for British Columbia shingles and have a good roof for years, than to buy cheap pine shingles, and have to repair continually. A considerable disparity in price as compared with the product of eastern nulls is unavoidable so long as the cost of freight remitting as high as 1st present On the other hand British Columbia shingles are being sold at slaughter prices in Winnipeg and throughout Manitoba, while the American duty is such as to render it impossible to compete with United States mills in the American market.

