<doctype type="text">

May, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	59



that clause 3 attempted to, and therefore there was no necessity to binder legitimate business.

Mr. <person>Aldridge </person>received no answer to his question whether there was a law calling upon a workman to give a receipt for wages, and he again urged it would he impossible to obtain receipts in some cases.

in reply to Mr. <person>Hardy</person>, who stated that the journeymen complained of the loss of large amounts of wages, Mr. <person>Vokes</person> pointed out that these cases probably arose from men working under an agreement very common among small builders, which provided that the wages for the work be paid when the building was completed and sold. If it was not disposed of the workman did not get his wages, and he probably considered it was a hardship over looking the fact that he undertook the work with a clear understanding of the risk. After some further remarks from Mr. Hardy the deputation withdrew, having received a promise that the questions raised should receive every consideration.

<article title=" CONSTRUCTION OF HARDWOOD DOORS " author="Maginnis, Owen B.">

CONSTRUCTION OF HARDWOOD DOORS.

IN constructing the modern hard wood door a series of operations are gone through by the cabinetmaker which are extremely interesting and of value to those who desire to know something of the methods of construction employed in completing this now universal detail, writes <person>Owen B. Maginnis</person> to the Building Monthly These operations embody a number of systems of proceeding, each aiding to a final end, and are as follows

The first process is to glue the cores or grounds together. These generally consist (If kiln dried white or yellow pine, say 1/2 inches thick for an 3/4 inch veneered veneers

 door, the	being

 inch. thick. The cores are generally got out full enough to allow for facing and thickening on the jointer and in the planer. The number of pieces in the cores depends on the desired width of the stile or rail, as, for instance_ a 6-inch would require a 3/4 -inch band (If the necessary hardwood, ash, oak or walnut, as specified, and four 3/4-inch pieces of pine.

In glucing these cores together they are carefully jointed with the plane and scratched, then heated in the hot box and at once glued, being pressed tightly together with large hand screws, in order to squeeze out the superfluous glue and close the joints.

In making joints in veneered work the surface of the joint must in all cases he (a little shaving) hollow, for the purpose of allowing the outer arises to come close together. Of course, all the cores should be long enough to make the necessary height, as 7 feet 8 inches long for a 7 feet 4 inches door, and so on as needed, always allowing enough to round over the bottom ends, se that the veneer will not be torn off when moving the door. When the glue is set the surfaces are scraped off clean, and they are faced up perfectly out of wind of the jointer and afterwards tried up true with the try plane. This being clone the stiles and rails, which are built up in the same manner, are brought to the planer or planing machine and there thickened. The stuff cores are then brought hack to the bench, where they are surfaced as before with the try plane (to remove all lumps) and scratched with the scratch plane to form a keying for the veneer. All knot holes or flaws which might be liable to cause a defect in the veneer ate carefully filled up to insure good veneering. This being (lone, it is usual to prepare the veneer after it has been ripped to its necessary width and crosscut to its length— that is, the different pieces for the stiles, rails, muntins, etc.

It is usually prepared by smoothing the poor side (being very careful that it is entirely free from spots or shakes, little knots or other flaws) and scratching it thoroughly to insure a firm keying for the glue. All the pieces (which generally run from 1/8 thick up to 1/2 are placed between strips edgeways s in the hot box, and allowed to become thoroughly impregnated with the heat so as to keep the glue from cooling too quickly, besides opening the pores (If the wood to admit it. While the veneers are in the box the cores are placed (the stiles first, in pairs) on the glueing horses and the big hand-screws set ready for applying, keeping the jams wide enough apart to take in two pairs of 2-inch stiles, or eight inches, or six inches. for one pair of 3-inch, and so on as required. When the veneers are sufficiently heated the flat faces of the cores are glued both sides and turned up on their edges (hardwood strip side tip) slightly apart, and the veneers are dropped between.

Be sure, however, to have the points of the grain up, to have the grain running up, and to lhve the grain so that they will pair alike. This should always be done before placing the veneers in the box. Having placed the cores of the stiles on the edges to which the hard wood strips is affixed the woodworker takes his veneer and after carefully matching the grains places them grain points up with the scratched side towards the glued faces of the cores resting on the horses so that the edges of the veneers and cores will come fair. He will then place a veneer on each of the right and left outer faces of the cores. Having done this he places a crawl or piece of 1/4-inch. stuff on each outside to press the outer veneers against their ground, and takes the big hand screws which have been set to span the combined width of cores and veneers. He places one at either end about two inches from the end spaces, the rest eight or ten inches apart, applying each screw from opposite sides. He screws the inner throat screw till it grips on the edge, and then turns the outer lever screw solidly down on the cawls, thus pressing the surfaces tightly together and forcing the glue into

the scratches, at the same time driving out that which is superfluous. Before the screws are permanently screwed tight, the whole mass is turned up to see that the veneers completely cover the whole width of the surfaces and if they do not they must be driven to their places with a block, taking care not to bruise or break the edges. Be certain, too, that the screws are all tight and the veneers pressed to a perfectly close joint.

It is best for two to veneer, for one can regulate tile veneers while the other is applying the screws, and both can act together on the screws afterward, giving more power. The glued stiles or mullions are then left in the screws about five hours to allow the glue to set.

Let me here impress the fact that the stuff must in all cases he thoroughly heated, and the glue perfect glue about one-third water and two thirds glue) laid on quickly with a large soft brush from a large pot, also that the operation be rapidly done before the stuff has time to cool.

The crawl must be only the exact width of the stuff and no wider. It is advisable that the jaws of the hand screws be also wide enough to reach across the width.





<article title=" SCARFED BEAMS " author="">

SCARFED BEAMS.

Where neatness is more essential than strength, scarred joints are preferred to any arrangement of "fishing," because a beam united by scars and bolts is of the same breadth and depth at the joints as at other parts. In order that the bolts may not be screwed through the timber and to increase the clamping surface, it is advisable to add a plate of iron on the faces of the beam where the heads and nuts (If the bolts pass through. The ends of these plates may be turned into the wood to give greater grip. But it is desirable to avoid depending solely upon bolts for the strength of a scarf, owing to the effect of the shrinking of the timber and the liability of the bolts to be, in consequence of their small dimensions, pressed into the wood. Keys or wedges can be often used to keep the upper and lower parts ill their places. Varieties may he almost infinitely multiplied by increasing the number of the faces, whether oblique or square, and uniting the parts either by tabling, keying or a combination of the two; but in most cases, the greater simplicity should he aimed at, in order that the parts may the more readily be made to fit each other with accuracy. Very complicated scars have been used by some old carpenters, respecting which Robinson observes that "many seem to aim at making the beam stronger than if it were one piece," an absurdity too manifest to need refutation. When a scarred beam is exposed to transverse strains, the joint should be varied from the ordinary form When a piece of timber, subject to compression in the direction































of its length, has been scarred, oblique faces should he avoided because of their tendency to slide upon each other.

Though bolts are commonly used to secure scarred joints, iron hoops or straps, driven on tightly, have been recommended in their stead and possess the advantage of not weakening the timber In joints that depend wholly on bolts, Tredgold recommends that the sum of their areas should never be less than two-tenths of the area of the section (If the beam. lie has also given the following rules for the length of scars: In oak ash or elm, the whole length of the scarf should be six times the depth or thickness of the beam, where there are no bolts. In fir without bolts, twelve times the depth. The whole length of a scarf dependent wholly upon the bolts, should be for oak ash or elm about three, and in fir, six mimes the depth of time beam. When bolts and indents are used together, the length of the scarf may be in hard wood twice, and soft wood four times the depth.— The Architect.



New buildings to the value of nearly $2,000,000 are said o he in course of construction at Winnipeg.



TESTS OF WHITE PINE —Some tests of the transverse strength of small pieces of pine made by Mr. <person>James W. Woodman</person>, of (be Minneapolis Building Inspectors force, and published below, indicate (be wide variation existing in the strength of different samples of that wood. All but two pieces were from different boards, and as they were taken from (be refuse of a large factory there is small chance that any two except those mentioned above were from the same tree. All were as carefully gauged and squared as possible with joiners tools, and the loads were applied slowly. Thirteen pieces one inch by one inch, twelve inches between bearings and

loaded at center,		broke as follows?

1.420	pounds	4464 pounds		7,395	pounds	10 540	pounds

2,580 pounds	5,610 pounds	8,280 pounds	11,270 pounds

3,450 pounds	6,530 pounds	9,295 pounds	12,420 pounds

13,210 pounds

Time average breaking strength being 420 pounds.

