<doctype type="text">

area was therefore 134.7, and there still remained unoccupied space. From these figures it would appear that the resistance of floors which are likely to carry heavy weights should not be less than three hundred pounds to the square foot, for as the average dead weight tomes close upon 150 lbs. per square foot, double that strain should be allowed as a provision against sudden movements in a crowd, as in the case of a panic.



THE condition of the sanitary arrangements in the buildings of our towns and cities is of the utmost importance at the present time in view of the threatened cholera epidemic. It is therefore pleasing to note that Montreal and Hamilton are taking special steps to have such appliances in their respective cities as complete and sound as possible. This example should be followed by sanitary authorities in other places. It is most essential that plumbing work should he perfectly executed, as the least defect reveals itself by its unpleasant and unhealthy consequences. One of the chief requirements which very often does not receive sufficient attention, is the ventilation of the work in order to prevent any fool air being water-bound. There should always he a free escape provided for the air displaced by flushing, which otherwise would bubble up through the water by which it is supposed to be hermetically confined. Every soil pipe should have a ventilating pipe from the top carried above the eaves to the roof of the building, by which means all foul vapors escape to the open air In places where the electric cars are in operation, there is another strong reason why a general inspection of plumbing work should be made; this is the discovery of electrolysis to metals caused by earth currents of electricity. In Hamilton, for instance, seven service pipes in the vicinity of the street railway power house were found to have been eaten out from this cause. The chemical decomposition to metals from electricity in the way mentioned is a serious matter, and one which should have the attention of everyone interested in the sanitary welfare of towns and cities.



WHILE minor matters are engaging the attention of the mayor and aldermen of the city of Toronto, the all-important subject of a pure water supply and an improved method of sewage disposal, are apparently receiving hut scant consideration. There seems to exist no determination in the mind of the Council to grapple with the problem and stay with it until its proper solution shall have been discovered and carried out. Theories, reasonable and unreasonable, are from time to time advanced, but nothing is (lone. We are told that the effort to conduct the pure water of the lake through the sewage laden waters of the bay to the pumping station and thence through the city mains to the homes of the citizens, is contrary to common sense and will never succeed. This may in a measure be true. 'We would like to point out, however, that the chance of obtaining a pure supply of water by the present means would he vastly increased if an intercepting sewer were constructed which would carry the city sewage along the esplanade to a point where it could be safely discharged into the lake. After the bay had thus ceased to be the receptacle for filth from the city sewers, it might he cleansed of the deposits which at present it contains, and the water rendered comparatively pure by continual contact with the water of the lake, for the bringing in of which means could easily he devised. Such a method of proceed one would be going to the root of the difficulty instead of trying to find means to mitigate its effects, while the cause is allowed to remain undisturbed. It may be a very good thing to know that by the application of chemicals the germ-laden deposits of sewage in the slips at which the pleasure boats of Toronto embark and disembark their passengers can be rendered less dangerous, but it would be much more satisfactory to know that the deposits did not exist. Toronto certainly is in need of public parks, to the securing (if which the attention of the Mayor has lately been directed but infinitely greater is the need of a pure water supply and a trunk sewer for the proper disposal of the sewage of the city, both of which we commend to his prompt and most serious attention.



The second session of the Toronto Technical School has recently closed. It is a pleasure to learn that the results of the two sessions have greatly exceeded the anticipations of the pro-motels of the movement. During the session which has just closed the students numbered about three hundred. The attendance of this large number (if students is said o have been regular and their progress most satisfactory. In view of the eagerness which has been displayed in taking advantage of the facilities offered for the acquirement of instruction in the various departments of knowledge required by artisans, we may look forward with confidence to the continued growth and increased usefulness (if this new department of education. Indeed we shall not be surprised to see at no distant day technical instruction and manual training made a part of our system of public instruction. Such a movement has already taken place in some American cities, notably St. Paul, Minn., where there are in operation what are known as manual training high schools. The value of these schools is regarded as such that when recently the proposal was made to abolish them on the ground of expense, the Chamber of Commerce in a report on the subject said:" Destroy all the schools if you must, but leave us the annual training high schools." The fact is apparent that

our educational system does not as it should attempt to instruct the pupil in those subjects which are likely to be of most advantage to him in his future life. Notwithstanding that one pupil is foreordained by circumstances to earn his living by means of his hands and another by means of his head, our public school system assigns to each exactly the same studies. This is manifestly wrong, and the effect may be seen in the dislike which many youths manifest to forms of employment in which skilled hand labor is required It may likewise be observed in the overcrowded ranks of the professions and what are known as genteel employment's. What is needed to ensure a higher average of comfort among all classes and a higher condition of prosperity for the country is an increase of properly trained agricultural and artisan producers.





DURING the last five years architects, reputable builders and supply merchants have alike suffered from the doings of irresponsible and incompetent contractors. Flow to get rid of this undesirable class is problem to some extent an unsolved, although the quiet condition of the building market during the past year has been the means of breaking up many so-called "firms" whose members have returned to the ranks of journeymen, which they should never have left, or have sought pastures new in other lands. Some of the labor unions, especially the bricklayers, have also to a certain extent prevented by their by-laws a continuance of a competition farce. As far as the merchants are concerned, they are to a large extent responsible for their own loss ; so long as they are willing to supply such customers with materials, so long may it be expected that they will continue to build at other people's expense. We are pleased to observe that merchants are learning by sad experience that this class of trade is letter left alone. The trade in Chicago have originated a plan which to a large extent will eliminate these difficulties, and which is worthy of the consideration of Canadian contractors and supply firms. A mercantile agency has been incorporated by which reliable members, contractors and merchants, are protected. This agency keeps a perfect record of the financial responsibility of every building contractor in Chicago, compiled from opinions received from every person who has had business transactions with him Stockholders alone are allowed to use this information, and they must he manufacturers of builders' supplies, approved of by a board of directors comprised of seven men appointed from the different interested industries. The collection department is a special feature of the concern. Parties temporarily embarrassed have every opportunity afforded them to make favorable settlement, while legal means are used to make those pay who are able but will not. There is also a system of arbitration in connection with the agency for the adjustment of disputed accounts. Should this scheme work out in practice as well as it looks in theory, contractors and material merchants in Canada would do well to take some steps along this line not only to improve their present condition but to prevent the disreputable contractors forced out of Chicago by the means described bed from coming into Canada.





IN another column we refer to  the proposed a(:t to protect the rights of wage earners as introduced by Sir <person>Oliver Mowat </person>in the Ontario Legislature We also give a report of the visit of the deputation from the <assoc>Toronto Builders' Exchange </assoc>of Toronto to the Government asking for amendments to the hill. Should this bill become law without some modification, a great obstacle will be placed in the way of the building trade of Ontario, The object (if the act itself is good, for journeymen have occasionally suffered from loss (if their wages through dishonest and speculative builders, but if the third section (if the act he passed as it now stands, the proposed remedy would be the means of crippling the operations of contractors to a large extent. It is also a question whether the section would reach those for whom it is intended. Taking the contractors as a body, we cannot help thinking there is only a small minority who would willingly keep any of their journeymen from what is justly due to them for wages. Therefore it is not reasonable to place such severe obligations upon the whole body of contractors with a view of overcoming the possible wrong-doing of the few. The President of the Toronto Builders' Exchange state(l, when before the Government, that during the existence of that institution he had not heard of any of its members being guilty of such unjust action. As the membership of the Exchange contains most of the building contractors (if any note in the city this statement should be regarded as a strong argument against unnecessary restrictions thee other clauses in the act the riot purpose any radical change in the existing Lien Act, but our cannot understand why a contractor should be required to produce his receipted pay list, as well as make a declaration stating that all wages have been paid to date, when applying for a pro. guess certificate, while a mortgagor who is often himself the builder need only make the declaration referred to, when asking the mortgagee for an advance. It would appear from this, that the veracity of the contractor, working tinder ordinary progress certificates, is not considered by the promoters of the bill to he as reliable as that of builders who find it necessary to shortage their hand before commencing to build. We think also that sub-contractors should come tinder all the provisions of the bill, for if the principal contractor is held respond

