<doctype type="text">	

54	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	May, 1893



THE York Pioneers have taken in hand the erection of a monument to Governor <person>Simcoe</person>, and the Ontario Government will be asked to grant a suitable site for the same in Queen's Park, Toronto. It is very desirable that the memory of the man who founded the Queen City of Canada and caused it to be made the seat of legislation for Ontario, should be perpetuated in the manner proposed. The time also is most appropriate, as the present month marks the centennial of the founding of the city. If a suitable site l)e granted, as we have no doubt will be the case_ the York Pioneers will make every effort to erect a statue which shall he recognized as a work of art, and a deserving memorial of one of the greatest pioneers of Canadian civilization.



AN international congress of architects is to be held in Chicago tinder the auspices of the World's Congress Auxiliary, during the week commencing July 31st. The object is stated to be to bring together the eminent architects of all countries for friendly intercourse, comparison of methods and results, and the promotion of their mutual interests in the profession. The following subjects have been selected for consideration at this congress -—-Workingmen's Houses ; Modern Department Houses Ancient Department Houses Laundries in houses, health Effect Modern Stables, large and small Responsibility of Architects in Constructional Matters Responsibility of Architects as to Plans Responsibility of Architects in Decorative Matters ; Sculpture and Architecture; Painting and Architecture ; The Client's Right to Service, as 10 Drawings Ownership of Same, Specifications and Details, as to Supervision, etc. ; Mechanical Engineering in Architecture, and the Architect's Responsibility Therefor ; Modern Steel Construction; Fire-Proofing of Buildings to Date.





THE public works department at Ottawa are evidently anxious to protect themselves from a class of undesirable contractors, and in order to do this have issued new regulations regarding Government contacts. In future the deposited check is to he IO instead of per cent. on the amount of contract, and only 8o in place of 90 per cent. will be paid on progress estimates. This new arrangement may be the means of keeping smaller contractors from competing for the work, but if a contractor has the confidence of his employer there is no reason why restrictions of any large amount should be placed on his progress certificates. During the erection of the <building>Ontario Parliament Buildings </building>payments on account to the contractors were made to the amount of 90 per cent. on the value of the work executed, and the work financially has been carried out in a satisfactory manner. Larger amounts than 20 per cent. are often kept back by architects upon progress certificates, but it has often been the means of retarding the progress of works even in the hands of honest contractors.





We had occasion recently to refer to the unfair treatment accorded by the Toronto city council to Mr. <person>Alex. Gartshore</person>, of Hamilton, whose tender for water pipe, being the lowest was rejected in favor of a higher tender by a local firm. The sequel to this piece of injustice now appears in Mr. Gartshore's refusal to again submit a tender for material required by the city of Toronto when invited to tin so. In consequence of this refusal only a single tender was received. It is a short-sighted policy for corporations to exclude the competition of outside contractors. By doing so they are compelled to pay higher prices for work and material, and as gradually the impression gets abroad that no outsider need apply, the local contractors are enabled to combine and have things all their own way. In the case to which we have referred, however, outside contractors were led to submit tenders on invitation of the Board of Works in the belief that the Council would deal with the same impartially and on their merits. Their confidence in this regard having been disappointed, as honorable men they very properly refuse to again be made dupes of.





It was not without a feeling of regret that we read the letter of Mr. <person>Gregg</person>, in our last issue, announcing the dissolution of the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Club</assoc>, formerly the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Sketch Club</assoc>. This regret will he shared by many of our readers who have themselves been benefited by connection with the Club, or who are familiar with the work it achieved. The many valuable papers read by specialists in various subjects at the Club meetings during the last four or five years, were instructive not only to the members, but also through their subsequent publication in these columns, to a large constituency outside. Several competitions took place each season with results which were creditable to those taking part and highly beneficial to students and others both in and out of the Club's membership. It is most desirable :hat the good work of this organization should by some means be perpetuated. The existence of several local associations with objects more or less common, no doubt proved a source of weakness to all. From the elements of these organizations it should now be possible to form, as Mr. Gregg suggests, a new one which would secure a large membership and he efficient in promoting the interests of architecture and of architects both young and old in the city of Toronto.

THE appropriation of $60,000 passed by the Legislature of British Columbia for the erection of new <building>Government buildings at Victoria </building>is meeting with vigorous opposition from the residents on the mainland. The Governor-General-in-Council has been memorialized to disallow the Act of the Legislature. The area of the mainland portion of British Columbia is 366,300 square miles anti the population 61,406, as compared with an area of 16,002 square miles and a population of 36,767 on the island of Vancouver. This is given as a reason why the proposed expenditure on new Parliament buildings should rather he applied to public improvements tin the mainland. Another argument in support (if this contention is that the people of the mainland contribute over two-thirds of the provincial revenue. It is further urged that the estimated yearly expenditure of the province will exceed the total revenue by about $200,000, and that therefore the revenue cannot sustain the charge which the proposed expenditure would entail. There is likewise the contention that the capital of the province should he removed to the mainland on account of the majority of the of the population being resident there, and because of the inconvenience and expense imposed upon those who have to transact business with the Government at Victoria, The residents of the mainland recognize in the proposal to erect new buildings at Victoria a determination to fix the seat of Government there, hence the opposition which is being manifested. It is by no means likely that the authorities at Ottawa will disallow the act of the provincial legislature, therefore the only way in which the erection of time proposed new buildings is likely to he prevented is by the defeat of the existing government at the polls Meanwhile preparations are actively going forward for the commencement of building operations.



THE London Lancel of the 8th of April contains the result of a very thorough enquiry concerning the water supply and general sanitary condition of the city of Chicago. This enquiry, the Lancel states, was undertaken by members of its staff for the benefit of Europeans who may visit the World's Fair. As proportionality larger number of Canadians than Europeans are likely to visit Chicago during the next six months, the result of this inquiry may very properly be stated for their benefit. The Chicago river is declared to be in a "disgusting condition," especially in the vicinity of the stockyards, not far from the Southern Branch Pumping Station, where the filthy conditions are said to be such as to defy description. This condition is induced by animal refuse indiscriminately mixed with sewage, being dumped into the river, in consequence of which the air of the locality is alleged to be charged with nauseating odors which cannot but be highly injurious to health. The domestic supply of water, which is drawn from Lake Michigan, is found to he in respect of color, total solid matter, hardness, chlorine and oxygen required to oxidize organic matter, superior to the choicest of London's supply. It contains, however, lout' forms of vegetable life and matter in suspension. The probability of these finding their way through the mains is such that visitors are counseled to use nothing bunt boiled or filtered water. Another source of danger is shown to exist in tine custom of using ice in drinking water. A sample of water which had passed through a filter, upon being analyzed was found to contain low forms of vegetable life due to the melting therein of impure ice subsequent to filtration. Thus by the use of ice mite good effects of finration same nullified, In the light of the result of the above enquiry Canadian visitors to Chicago should keep as far its possible away from the neighborhood of the Chicago river, should insist upon the water they drink being boiled or filtered, and should avoid the use of ice.



THE safe resistance of floors in public buildings and other places where dense crowds are likely in congregate is a question of vital importance. From recent experiments it would appear that architects do not work on safe calculations regarding this matter. It is generally understood that a crowd of people when densely packed together cannot impose more weight than ninety pounds per square foot. The tests referred to, however, show that tine dead load should far exceed that amount. Mr.

<person>C.	H. C. Wright</person>, lecturer in architecture at tine School of Science, Toronto, in some experiments last March with thirty-two of his students, found that when they were placed close together in an area of 33.46 square feet, there was a load of I39 lbs. to the square foot. Them aggregate weight was 4,656 lbs., which shows the average weight to be 145.5 lbs. Mr. <person>Bindon B. Stoney</person>, the distinguished authority tin bridges and roofs, has also conducted two experiments along this line. He packed a crowd of fifty-six laborers on the deck house of a ship giving a total weight of 8,404 lbs., or an average of lbs. As tine area covered was 57 square feet, each man haul a little less than one square foot of standing room, amid gave a load of 147.4 lbs. per square foot. On another occasion he collected 73 laborers on the floor of a hut having an area of 77 square feet. Their aggregate weight was 10,948 lbs. an average weight of 150 lbs. to each. The result gave 142 lbs. to each square foot, and there was a possibility that two or three more men could have been squeezed in. Professor <person>Kernot</person>, of Victoria, tried a similar test with his class of engineering students. He packed 16 of them weighing 2455 lbs., within an area of 18 square feet, which

an average of 153-4 lbs. to each man. The weight per

