<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE LIEN LAW " author="">THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE LIEN LAW.

SIR <person>Oliver Mowat </person>has introduced in the Ontario Legislature, a bill entitled "An Act to further Facilitate the Enforcement of the Just Rights of Wage-earners and Sub-contractors." Its principal clauses read as follows

1.	Every device by any owner or contractor which shall he adopted in order to defeat the priority of wage-earners for their wages under the several Acts relating to mechanics' liens shall, as respects such wage-earners, he null and void.

2.	In case an owner chooses to make payments to the mechanics, laborers, or other persons referred to in the 4th section of the revised Mechanics' Lien Act, for or on account of just debts due to them for work done or materials or machinery placed or furnish as therein mentioned without the proceedings mentioned in sections 11 to 14 of the said Act, and shall within three days afterwards give by letter or otherwise, written notice, of such payment to the contractor or his agent, such payment shall, as between the owner and the contractor, be deemed to he a payment to the contractor on the contract generally, but not so as to affect the percentage to be retained by the owner as provided by the sections 7, 8 and 9 of the said Mechanics Lien Act as amended by the Act passed in the 53rd year of Her Majesty's reign. entitled An Act to amend The. Mechanics' Lien Act.

3—(1) Before a contractor shall be entitled to receive a payment on his contract, it shall he his duty to produce to and leave with the owner, his pay list or a duplicate of his pay list, containing the receipts of the persons mentioned for the wages due to them op to and including the day before the intended payment, and an affidavit or statutory declaration by the contractor, (or in his absence by his agent competent from personal knowledge to speak to the facts), verifying such pay list and receipts, and stating that the said pay list names all persons employed on the work, and that all persons who up to that time have been employed on the work and entitled to wages, have been paid in full and an affidavit or a statutory declaration to the same effect by the architect or superintendent of the work (if any), unless he has made the like affidavit or statutory declaration tinder the provision aforesaid as to an agent. The said affidavits or statutory declarations may he to the effect set forth in the schedule to this Act, and marked A.



(2)	The said pay list so receipted and he said affidavits shall be conclusive evidence in favor of the owner making the payment unless at or before making the payment he had actual and express notice of any fraud en the part of the contractor in obtaining the signatures and receipts of the persons named in the pay list or others.

(3)	Any payment made on the contract without having received such receipted pay list and affidavits, or with actual and express notice of unpaid wages, shall not be a valid payment as against persons whose wages are unpaid at the time of the payment on the contract.



 The lien of wage-earners for thirty days wages, or for a balance equal to thirty days' wages, provided for by section of the Mechanics' Lien Act, as amended by section 2 of the said Act interlude An act to amend the Mechanics' Lien Act, shall not he defeated or impaired by any attachments issued subsequently to tire contract, or by any garnishment subsequently had, or by any execution subsequently issued, or by reason of the work contracted for being unfinished or of the price for that or any other reason not being payable to the contractor.

5 In ease of the contract not having been completely fulfilled when the lien is claimed by wage-earners, the percentage aforesaid shall be calculated on the work done or materials furnished by the contractor.

6.	Where a mortgage is given to secure an intended loan of money which is to be made thereafter according or with reference to the progress of work done, or materials or machinery placed or furnished as aforesaid, on the land mortgaged, no advance thereafter made by the mortgagee shall have priority over the claims of mechanics, laborers, or other persons referred to in section 4 of The Mechanics' Lien Act as aforesaid if the mortgagee at or before the time of such advance has actual and express notice that there are any such claims as aforesaid unpaid; nor unless at the time of the advance he shall require and receive from the mortgagor an affidavit or statutory declaration stating that all such persons as aforesaid have been paid in full up 10 the time of the advance and an affidavit or statutory declaration by the architect or superintendent of the work (if any), speaking to the best of his knowledge and belief to the same effect. The said affidavit or statutory declarations may he to the effect set forth in the schedule to this Act, marked

"B."

7.	In case of the sale or mortgage of an unfinished house or building, with or without the land on which the same stands, if its being an unfinished house or building is such as to be apparent to an ordinary observer, the purchaser, before paying his purchase money, or giving a mortgage or other value or security for any balance of such purchase money, or the mortgagee before advancing any money on the security of a mortgage or otherwise, shall require from the vendor (in the case of a sale) or from the mortgagor (in the ease of a mortgage) similar affidavits or statutory declarations of the payment of all claims as are provided for in section 6 of this Act; and the purchaser or mortgagee shall not he entitled to priority in respect of such claims, if at or before the time aforesaid he had actual and express notice that there were such claims as aforesaid unpaid; nor unless he shall have received such affidavits and statutory declarations aforesaid.

8.	Where in tire case of a prior mortgage or other charge, the selling value of the land is increased by the construction alteration, or repairs of the building, or by the erection or placing of the materials or machinery on the said land the said prior mortgage or other charge shall retain its priority to the extent of the value or amount for which such prior mortgage or other charge is a security before such construction, alterations or repairs of such building, or before the placing of such materials or machinery on the said land ; and the lien given by the said Acts shall he entitled to rank upon the increased value given to such land by tire said improvements in priority to such mortgage or other charge (see R. S. 0. c. 526, 5. 5. sub-sec. 3, and Kennedy v. Haddon. 19 Ont., R. 240; Richards v. Chamberlain 35 Grant 402, and West v. Sinclair, 28 Canada Law Jour. 119.)

9.	Where any proceeding is taken to enforce a lien tinder the Mechanics' Lien Acts, in case a mortgagee of the land is served with a written notice of such proceeding being had, he shall thereafter he entitled to attend the proceedings: and in such ease he shall not, without the leave hereafter mentioned, take any proceeding for sale or foreclosure, nor proceed to exercise any power of sale until the proceedings to enforce the lien have terminated; but he may without leave serve any notices required to he served in order to the due exercise of the power. The leave aforesaid may he granted by the county judge, master or official referee, before whom the lien proceedings are pending. and shall only he granted by consent, err (if without consent) on a reasonable consideration of all the circumstances in view of what would he just to both parties.

Clause 10 to the end of the act deals with provisions for legal proceedings. They give the Division Court and City Magistrate jurisdiction in matters relating to the payment of wages, and

any order made by the latter can be made a judgment in the Division Court and enforced as such.

On the 8th inst. a deputation from the <assoc>Toronto Builders' Exchange</assoc>, consisting of Messrs. <person>John Aldridge</person>, <person>David Williams</person>,

<person>M. Murphy</person>, <person>William Park</person>, <person>William Pears</person>, <person>George Moir</person>, <person>M. Vokes </person>and <person>James Tennant</person>, with Messrs. <person>G. Ritchie </person>and <person>Frank Denton </person>as legal advisers, waited upon the Ontario Government with regard to the above act. The deputation was introduced <person>by D. Gilmour</person>, M.P.P., anti received by Sir Oliver Mowat, Hon. <person>A. S. hardy</person>, <person>C. F. Fraser</person>, <person>John Dryden </person>and <person>G. W. Ross</person>. Mr. Pears, President of the Exchange, in speaking on behalf of the delegation, said that the bill as it stood would adversely affect legitimate business to a greater degree than it would remedy an injustice supposed to exist affecting wage-earners. He referred to certain amendments which the association he represented desired to see made to the bill before it became law, and said as regards section t he thought it should read so as to apply to the same parties mentioned in Section 4 of tire Mechanics' Lien Act viz every mechanic, machinist, builder, miner laborer, contractor, or other persons doing work upon or furnishing materials to be used in the construction of a building. He considered the supply merchant had as much right to be protected from devices to defeat payment for materials as workmen for their wages. Section 2 he found no fault with, but section 3 he considered embodied the chief weak point of the bill. It was almost impracticable, and should be struck out as absolutely unnecessary, while section 6 remained. It did not even reach the parties it was intended to, and would greatly hamper the business of a legitimate builder He believed that any workman who had lost wages could show that it was nut because the contractor had received his money and had not pail miff his workmen, but because the latter had not been able to get his money from the building owner, and the section would not reach this man. These were the cases where workmen lost their wages, or when the builder and owner were the same person. He could honestly say he hail never heard of a man not being paid by a contractor when the contractor had received what was due to him. Section 4 was considered just but section 5 should include the same parties suggested for section 1. He would also propose that the percentage retained on a contract should be applied to the liquidation of liens before being used for completing the building. The objects which it was hoped section 3 would attain he thought, as already suggested, would be amply provided for by section 6, and therefore this and the following section should stand while section 3 should he expunged. With regard 10 section 8, he considered an amendment should he added to the effect that the value of improvements referred to should he estimated at 50 per cent. of their actual cost ; thus while 50 per cent, would go to the mortgages there would be also 50 pet cent. of their value available to satisfy any existing liens upon the building With regard to the jurisdiction of matters under tire act, he thought that the Division Court should be the legal tribunal for liens, even those now provided for in the High Courts by the " Mechanics' Lien Act," and ire asked that the Bill be allowed to cover this ground In conclusion he wished it to be understood that the object of the delegation was not to prevent justice being done to the wage-earner but that both classes should be placed on a fair and equal footing in their business connection.

Mr. John Aldridge also pointed out that section 3 which was aimed at speculative builders, would not touch that class to any extent, as such men were generally building owner and builder combined. If the clause was allowed to stand as at present it would only be the means of hampering the work of legitimate contractors. He doubted very much whether it would be possible to produce receipts for all wages paid, as they were not always obtainable.

Sir Oliver Mowat asked if this clause would meet the views of the deputation if it was altered sir as simply to provide for the production of an affidavit when an advance was required declaring that all wages due say a fortnight previous to that (late had been paid.

Mr. Aldridge in reply thought that the trade would be satisfied with any arrangement as long as they were not hampered in their business, but as the clause would not reach the parties Intended he did not see the necessity of it being in the Act.

Mr. Ritchie strongly urged that in clause it should be made quite clear that lien holders had to be satisfied before any of the percentage held by the building owner could be devoted to completing the building.

Sir Oliver Mowat thought the clause was clear on that point.

Mr. Ritchie also drew attention to the fact that no provision was made in cases where a builder purchased land simply on the terms of a building agreement. He therefore suggested a clause should be inserted to the following effect "In case a purchaser of any land shall make default in carrying mint the terms of an agreement for the purchase thereof a lien shall not be defeated by such default, butt shall he attached to the estate or interest of the person to whom the land shall revert by reason

of such default." He also thought that claims tinder the lien laws for wages and materials should be transferred to the Division Court from the higher Courts, as he had often found it

his experience that costs prevented the bringing of actions for

small amounts	 Mr. <person>Denton</person> agreed that clause 6 in the Act accomplished all

