<doctype type="text">

June, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	67

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL DISGUISES " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL DISGUISES.

Concealment of structural materials and forms is one of the characteristics  of our modern architecture, says thc Building News. We have passed from an age of imitation to one of disguises. Formerly it was the fashion to make stucco marble, and. graining the natural figure of real wood Even the groined stone vaults of the churches were represented by the plaster imitations, as in that of St. Lake's, Chelsea. Art apostacy could not have been carried further, for these imitations lost sight of the constructive in all the materials that were so represented or misrepresented. The jointing of stone work and vaulted masonry depended upon the whim of the stuccoist; there was a want of reality apparent which quite demoralized the art of masonry. To a like extent carpentry, and especially joinery, suffered from the customs of painting and graining everything, for good jointing and clean finish were impossible when woodwork was painted a stone color, or grained to imitate oak or mahogany.

But this era of misrepresenting constructive materials has passed away— let us hope for ever, and honesty of construction has taken its place. For a brief period the reaction from imitation led to excesses, for we remember the time when naked brick and stone walls, and unpainted woodwork were looked upon as virtues, and when everything in the shape of casing was pronounced an abomination. Church roofs and wooden benches of the 13th century simplicity and skeleton organs divested of all casings were the order of the day. We have now recovered from these bursts of enthusiasm, and are settling down to rational doctrines in architecture, as we are in church and house building. We have begun to see the difference between mere imitation and clothing; that a covering is not necessarily bad architecture. Still, there are modes and rules to he observed. the increase of new materials and appliances has brought with it a new danger which the architect has to guard against, and to which we may briefly draw our readers' attention.

First, there is the inducement to cover a plain, inexpensive material with one of greater value in the same manner as common metals are electroplated with silver and gold. Even the ancient Romans resorted to the practice of veneering their buildings with slabs of marble. Secondly, the desire to economise has encouraged the manufacture of materials for the purpose of encasing construction. The first motive, if it does not go so far as to deceive the eye, is reasonable. 'rake, for example, a wall-lining: if it represents by joints and masonry a stone wall, it is certainly dishonest but if it is merely fixed to the surface in slab-like pieces, and does not pre tend to he anything more than a surface incasement, we cannot find fault with such a mode of wall enrichment. A number of projecting piers or pilasters covered by a marble veneer would he misleading and wrong in design, but a flat, superficial mode of panelling would he quite legitimate. A plaster ceiling "jointed" to represent solid voussoirs and ribs is obviously wrong in principle, and plaster in such a position should be treated as plaster panels by painted or fresco decorations, and in no case show masonry jointing. A more legitimate motive to cover a structural material is to give it a more presentable or comfortable surface, as that of encasing a brick wall with plaster or an iron column with wood and this motive power opens a very wide field for the use of all kinds of non-conducting and artistic surfaces. But in this application there is decidedly need for caution. There is the danger of sacrificing the real structure or material, as, for instance, in making the design for an iron column suitable for a wooden or a marble one ; in short, of thinking of the encasing material rather than of the actual support. In this way the sin of imitation or misrepresentation is likely to be revived if architects are not on the alert. Let us take a few examples. Iron columns and stanchions are frequently used to support the upper walls of large banking premises. These are generally incased either in plaster or wood, and we have seen these casings made to agree with the wall or dado work by covering the iron column with panelled work, making them square or octagonal, instead of honestly treating the column as a support and arranging the easing independently of adjoining woodwork. We often see walls lined by materials which are designed or manufactured to ignore the idea ofa wall lining. The panels. instead of being large and square, are in a profusion of small sizes, irregular in shape, set diamond wise, intended to display the joiner's art, or the fabric itself, whatever it may be. All this is contrary to art. Marble veneers, wood parquetry, glass, keramic decoration are all open to this objection. We found fault with stucco or plaster walls painted and jointed to represent marble: an almost similar objection would apply to a casing which ignored the walls and its piers.

Ceiling decoration, including in this description skylights, the ineasing of girders, and other structural things, is a disguise which is often carried to air excess. The whole construction of the floor, or roof—whatever it may be—is so far disguised by plaster or papier-mache decorations, that the design of the roof is lost sight of. The whole structure is changed. Is this architecture? Certainly not, if we accept the definitions. Is it architectural to introduce hugh plaster coves to flat roofs carried by beams or girders, so as to give the ceiling a semi-domical shape? Imagine a large room with a flat river it made to represent inside a vault of plaster. Yet this kind of construction is often met with. We see an ugly external skylight, so covered and shaped internally by decorative adjuncts as to totally alter its constructive form; or an iron girder transformed into a flat arch or incased in plaster several feet deep to give it the appearance of an entablature supported on end columns which carry nothing. These are every-day instances of how we disguise our large buildings, town halls, city banks, and residential blocks. We do not say these sorts of materials arc inadmissible when they are made to incase timber or iron, so as to present an internal covering: but let it be done honestly, without going out of the way to falsify the invisible means

of construction. We can understand, for example, the encasement of an iron column or a plate-iron girder by materials which present more suitable surfaces internally, such its plaster or papier mache, or wood and keramie decoration; but there is a right and a wrong way of doing it, both in the application and mode of decoration.

The fashion of disguising structural features, and especially iron, is developing in several ways. Some time ago iron was boldly used in columns, roofs, and other structures, and the material was left untouched. Several applications of iron are to lie met with. We have, for example, lately seen an iron staircase in which the strength arid rigidity of wrought iron has been given in shape of strings and risers, which are covered with wood. The iron plate string shaped to the curve of stairs is sandwiched between wood strings, the outer one of mahogany, and the risers of iron riveted to the string have teak on the outside. The <firm>St. Pancras Iron Company </firm>have, we understand, carried out several of these staircases. one of which we described last week. There is no reason artistic or otherwise, why strength and rigidity should not be given to these and like structures by the use of iron as a skeleton frame work. An iron frame economises space, and where curves are required as in a wreathed staircase or in theatre-gallery construction, the value of iron is undoubted, and many of our theatres, such as the <building>Albambra</building> and the <building>Empire</building>, have their galleries and dress circles constructed of iron imbeded in concrete. Disguises of this kind are legitimate and harmless enough if they do not assume too much, such as imitating stone or marble,

The consideration of economy in the employment of materials that take up little room and cost less than making a structure solid is sound as a principle, if only builders and architects knew what real economy was. They have often, however, confounded cheapness with it, and have encouraged the use of materials which are anything but economical in the long run, or have done what is quite as reprehensible—reduced tire working strength of their iron girders and columns, and have made up their apparent size by using cheap substitutes as a covering.

All kinds of patented compositions have been introduced as concealments of structure of recent years. Wood has been manufactured into a variety of ways for wall and other linings; all manner of plastic materials have been used for similar purposes, even leather and paper and wood-fibre have been pressed and embossed into a variety of forms; Anaglypta, leather papers, and other like materials, have come largely into ruse in decorations, and we have substitutes for cement, stone, and marble—all of them excellent in their way—intended to cover, protect, or decorate our buildings. But, in the multitude of these inventions and appliances, there is a danger of disregarding solid, honest construction, and in sacrificing good design to superficiality, and artistic ornament to spurious and unmeaning repetition.

<article title=" ELECTRIC KALSOMINING MACHINE " author="">

ELECTRIC KALSOMINING MACHINE.

ONE of the queerest applications of electricity at the World's Fair, says the Western Electrician, is the attachment of a motor to a machine that is doing a large share of the painting—or kalsomining, to be strictly correct--on the interiors of the great buildings. It was discovered some months ago that it would he very difficult, even with a small army of men, to do all the necessary painting by hand, and so <person>C. Y. Turner</person>, who is interested in the painting contract, devised an apparatus which, with the assistance of two men can apply as much kalsomine in a day as forty men with brushes. The painting machine consists essentially of an electric motor, a rotary pump, a barrel of kalsomine, a line of hose and a flat nozzel. The nozzel consists of a gas pipe about a foot long, pounded flat at one end so as to leave an opening about an inch across and wide enough to insert a sheet of card board. The pipe is attached to a long piece of rubber hose, the other end of which us dipped into a barrel of paint. A rotary pump run from a countershaft operated by an electric motor forces a current of air and particles of paint through the hose. The force of the air scatters the paint in a fine spray as it comes from the gas pipe A painter simply seizes the gas pipe, holds it about eighteen inches from the surface he is decorating, the electric motor is turned on and the work is done. Mounting two men with this device upon a movable platform scaffolding, the work of a gang of men for a fortnight can be accomplished in one day. The motor used is of the Edison type, of five horse power capacity. The arrangement has been in successful operation for some time. The color used for the interior of the electricity building is a very delicate blue, and it is evolved out of several component parts. A deep Prussian blue is the pronounced color taken as the basis. Dutch pink, which is not pink at all, but rather a reddish yellow, is another component, and these two are tempered with white in the proportion of 360 pounds of whiting, four and one-half gallons of Prussian blue. All the great iron arches in the roof have been painted by brushes Half a dozen men are still plying brushes above the galleries, but in other proportions of the building hose lines are playing on the woodwork. The effect of the things is very pleasing, and the work is now nearly completed.

