<doctype type="text">June, 1893	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	69direction is of no consequence. Both men confine themselves more to one kind of pen than Pennell does. Mecker's work in the ensemble, though lacking the modelling of Gregg's, still has more snap and life, especially his grass and trees. The conflict of aims in his drawings is the result, I think, of the too frequent use of the photograph. There are other treatments with the pen, such as are used by Wilson Eyre or Kirby, but the work of the latter appeals to me more as outline drawing, as architecture— al suggestions or memoranda, than as finished drawings.There is one Englishman, HERBERT Railton, whose work may be studied with profit. His style is peculiar to himself There is a sparkle about it which in thc single drawing is charming, but, alas, when seen in the aggregate this very excess of glitter becomes monotonous. His frequent and unsystematic use of blacks, which he evidently put in with a toothpick or brush, and his spotty and broken lights, are in the mass unpleasing. The rapidity with which he works gives a peculiar hooked radiating character to his lines, and this stroke does yeoman service for walls old or new, surfaces smooth or rough, grass or trees. If the effect is not dark enough he does not hesitate to crossline, being careful to subordinate the second series of lines to the first, thus keeping a predominating tendency to the lines. In this I think he has the advantage over Pennell.In these few remarks I have made no effort to go deeply into the subject of pen illustration. This has been so ably done by Pennell in his book on pen draughtsmen that it seems superfluous to attempt to do more.WHAT IS A CONTRACT?A contract, says Metal is a deliberate engagement between competent parties, upon a legal consideration, to do, or not to do, some act. In its widest sense it includes records and specialties, but the term is usually employed to designate only simple or parol contracts. By parol contracts it is to be understood, not only verbal and unwritten contracts, but all contracts not of record nor under seal. This is strictly the legal signification of the term contract, inasmuch as that reciprocity of consideration, and mutuality of agreement, which are necessary to constitute a parol agreement, are not requisite in obligations of record and in specialties.Contracts are divided into three classes first, contracts of record, such as judgments, recognizances and statutes staple second, specialties, which are contracts under seal, such as deeds and bonds ; third, simple contracts, or contracts by parol.A parol contract, then, is any contract not of record, nor under seal, whether it be written or verbal. Certainly thc facility of proof are all the advantages gained by reducing such an agreement to writing ; the liabilities of thc respective parties are not changed. Every contract is founded upon the mutual agreement of the parties and that agreement may be formally stated in words, or committed to writing, or it may be a legal inference, drawn from the circumstances of the case, in order to explain the situation, conduct and relations of the parties. When the agreement is formal, and stated either verbally or in writing, it is usually called an express contract. When thc agreement is matter of inference and deduction, it is called an implied contract. Both species of contracts are, however, founded upon the actual agreement of the parties, and the only distinction between them is in regard to the mode of proof, and belongs to the law of evidence. In an implied contract, the law only supplies that which, although not stated, must be presumed to have been the agreement intended by the parties. The law always presumes such agreements to have been made, as justice and reason would dictate, and assists the parties to any transaction to an honest explanation of it. But a promise will not be implied, contravening the express declarations to the party charged, made at the time of thc supposed agreement, unless such declarations be at variance with some legal duty, and then the law will imply a promise to perform that duty.Wherever a party avails himself of thc benefits of services done for him, although without his positive authority or request, the law supplies the formal words of contract and presumes him to have promised an adequate compensation. So also where a person engages to do any work or perform any service, he is understood to engage that he has sufficient skill and ability to fufilhis contract, and also that he will use all the means necessary to accomplish it. So, also, if a man having a title to certain properly silently permits another to deal with that property as his own, in all transactions between such person and others, acting in the confidence that the property belonged to him, the true owner would be bound.Thus, it a man stand by and knowingly sees his own property sold and either encourages thc sale or does not forbid it, the law implies a contract between him and the vendee, and accred its thc actual seller as his agent ; and this 1-tile obtains on the clear ground that if one of two innocent persons must suffer a loss, where one had misled the other, he who has been the cause of thc loss ought to bear it. But in all cases, thc circumstances must be such as to unequivocally imply a contract between the parties, and evidence may be given to rebut such a presumption. Nor is this rule restricted to cases where thc true owner of property knowingly permits another to make sale of it, without interference or objection, but it extends also to cases where a party, being ignorant that he has any title, does or says anything in the premises which actually misleads the purchaser to his injury; for however innocent he may be of a fraudulent intent, he ought to suffer the consequences of his own act, whatever loss or injury must accrue to one or thc other party. Yet, if his mistake would not occasion absolute injury, or did not operate to deceive, he will not be bound thereby. So whenever there is a uniform usage in a particular trade the parties are presumed to have contracted in reference to such usage, unless it be expressly excluded by them, or unless it be inconsistent with thc actual terms oftheir agreement. It must, however, he a general usage, or a universal custom which is brought home to the knowledge of thc  party, or it must be the special course or habit of dealing of oneof the parties, recognized and assented to by the other, or nosuch presumption will arise. In such cases, thc usage is understood to form a portion of the contract, and to exclude a rule oflaw inconsistent with it.If, in a written contract, the words of recital or reference manifest a clear intention that the parties shall do certain acts notexpressly stipulated, thc courts have therefrom inferred a covenant to do such acts and have sustained actions of covenant for their non-performance, in like manner as if the instrument had contained express covenants to perform them.HOUSE MOVING.THE Scientific American says :—The ferry-house located at the Brooklan terminus of the thirty-ninth street ferry, between the Battery in New York and South Brooklyn, is a brick structure 52 by 110 feet. This building was located at the foot of Thirty-ninth street. The Brooklyn City Railroad Company required increased facilities in that part of the city, and in consequence of this the ferry-house was removed from its original site 150 feet westward and 25 feet northward, and when the job is completed the building will stand 17 inches lower than it stood on the old site. This work was done in about one month, without injury to the walls, and at much less expense than would have been involved in tearing down and rebuilding.The building was placed on a rigid framework and its walls were shored and braced by tic rods and cross timbers, and it was moved on ways consisting of a framework of heavy timbers provided with diagonal guides which caused the building to move sidewise as well as endwise, the frame upon which the building rested being provided with shoes sliding diagonal guides. The abutments against which the moving screws rested were heavy timbers secured to the ways by means of chains. After the screws which abut upon the timbers had been run out their full length, they were returned to their original positions and the timbers moved forward and again made fast, when the operation was repeated.This job was done by B. C. Miller & Sons, of Brooklyn. N. Y., who moved the Brighton Beach Hotel bodily in 1889, after the damaging encroachment of the sea on the beach. The building was 465 feet long and 150 feet deep, three storeys high and weighed 5,000 tons. It was moved 239 feet back of its original position upon 112 platform cars by means of six locomotives.The appointment of a building inspector is being advocated by one of the Kingston aldermen, who states that at present buildings are sometimes created of fragile material and weak construction.