<doctype type="text">

	68	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	June, 1893

Design for a village Church <firm>Gregg & Gregg</firm>, Architects, Toronto.

<article title=" SOME NOTES ON PEN DRAWING " author="Willis, Albert P.">

SOME NOTES ON PEN DRAWING.

IN this age of the perfection of pictorial reproduction and of the multiplication of illustrated magazines, it is not surprising, writes <person>Albert P. Willis </person>in the Architectural Era that architects along with other classes should endeavor to use these means of placing their work before the public. Looked at merely from a business point of view it introduces them, for better or worse, to a wider circle of critics than would ever see their products in stone or brick. This is perfectly legitimate and were the work well done nothing more need be said ; but some of it is as poor in execution as anything ever honored by the name of illustration. If architecture is a fine art, as every day we are coming more and more to believe it to be, its practitioners must be seen by other lights than through an atmosphere of plans, estimates and contracts. Their works must appeal to us as things of beauty, and their illustration in the press must be artistically presented as our knowledge and experience will permit. If architects deem it necessary or tempting to illustrate at all, surely such illustration should not do injustice to the building itself.

It is admitted that the purpose of a drawing should govern its production ; now as the purpose of a pen of wash drawing cannot be purely descriptive, plans and elevations could fill that office better.

It must be pictorial it must endeavor to present a building in an attractive manner; to give us a composition

with the building as the central and striking feature.

Some architects, I fear, find themselves unable to do this, and perhaps, hand the work over to one of the

-	'T - square' trained office men, as incapable as them selves.

Let us rejoice, however, that our best firms, in such a predicament, employ an artist or illustrator and with most excellent results, as Blum's drawing of the Alcazar at St. Augustine, for instance, will prove.

If the architects want to do the work themselves they at least should become acquainted with the methods of well known illustrators. There is a score of artists in this country who in the last few years have had occasion to illustrate architecture, and while they know nothing about its technical features their numerous drawings in Harper's, Scribner's and Century bear testimony to the excellent work done. The means employed have been various, but none I think have given better results than pen and ink. For clean, sharp, crisp drawing and for the expression of detail it cannot be surpassed

In looking over a list of pen draughtsmen whose works are worthy the study of thc architectural student, the difficulty lies in selecting the few representative ones; <person>Pennell</person>, <person>Brennan</person>, <person>Blum</person>, <person>Cox</person>, <person>Gregg</person>, <person>Meeker</person>, <person>Fenn</person> and some others claim recognition. They are all able men who well know the limitations of their art. Some of them are close students and large borrowers of the methods of the great Spaniards, <person>Fortuny</person>, <person>Rico</person> and <person>Vierge</person>, but that should not detract from their prestige.

Pennell's illustrations of the English cathedrals, which appeared in the Century in 1888-89, give him the first claim for consideration. The beauty of his drawings lies in the grace and

economy of line, the exquisite expression of atmosphere, the large use of whites, the sparing and concentrated use of blacks Between his and Rico's work there is a striking similarity, making allowance of course for the difference produced by the brilliant sunlight of Spain and the cooler lights of England and America. He works mostly on Whatman's hot pressed or some paper with a slight grain. This, in the reproduction, gives a slightly broken line, very good for soft effects. Ordinarily he uses a Gillot's "Crow Quill," 659, which he claims is almost a living thing, so responsible is it to the touch and so wide in its field. Occasionally, however, we find him using other and heavier pens, to suit the occasion. His lines are broad and open with little cross hatchingf The forms are defined either by outline without shade or shade without outline only occasionally combining the two, The very scarcity of his blacks makes their occurrence extremely telling. Texture and local color arc almost eliminated, and thc general effect seems to he gotten by the juxtaposition of a great variety of grays. When he has occasion to use single outlines he is careful to break them frequently.

These, as nearly as can be formulated are Pennell's methods. At times he forsakes them to try new things ; occasionally we find him using lithographer's crayon to scumble in his shadows at other times he combines the pencil with the pen. But whatever thc experi m en t, whatever the work, we will see the same masterly  knowledge of drawing and chiaroscuro, the same patient toil over detail which yet does not obtrude itself.

It may be interesting to

know that

Pennell seldom uses the camera, sketching directly from the building.

Though we have been unable to print any of P en n e 11's

works, through the kindness of the American Architect and the Engineering Record we are enabled to show drawings by two men, Gregg and Meeker, whose methods differ so radically from each other and from Pennell's as to be extremely interesting and instructive. The former is a jurist, if such a term may be applied to the art. He discards local color and texture, and seldom uses the outline without breaking it into dots, and never cross lines. The shade lines which are apt to be slightly wavy, by their direction give no clue to the inclination of the surface. Gregg has certain well defined effects in view, which he attains in the most direct manner at the expense of all else. His work is open and devoid of tricks, his results are soft and clear.

The second artist, Meeker, while working with more feeling for artistic effect, yet has not that singleness of purpose which characterizes Gregg in his work The latter discards everything but mass and shadow, the former pays little attention to cast shadow, but devotes himself to the material of his walls, the stone jointing, etc. His darks are used rather to show windows, emphasize the carving and to indicate difference in color than to give the larger elements of the building their proper relief. The different materials used also make considerable difference in the result. Gregg uses an Esterbrook or Gillott pen, making a medium line, whose direction is studied. Meeker seems to use a "Crow Quill" on a perfectly smooth paper, which allows the pen to wander over it with perfect freedom. With him the

