<doctype type="text">

	June, 1893	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER.	65



feature among the residential streets has been the 'tenement houses," which are now rather losing favor. A few years ago it was difficult to get anything else in a decent locality within a mile or a mile and a half from the centre of the city, a "self contained" house being a rarity. These "tenements" were in many ways most objectionable two families tinder one roof, the one occupying the basement and ground floor, and the other, with its distinct entrance and staircase, occupying the tipper two floors. In this manner a large population could be accommodated in a limited area, but since this was the only means of housing oneself it had to he put up with. So accustomed do people get to circumstances that owners experienced no difficulty in obtaining high rents for "half houses," while many of the best people were willing to occupy them. Now, however, it is hardly likely more of these will he built.



AN article appeared in The Week lately on the subject of

"class legislation," which is considered by the writer even in the cases of legal and medical societies to be so absolutely unnecessary that any such thing is equivalent to placing the public in the position of " children and imbeciles." It is stated that "ordinarily it will he sufficient that the individuals practising any profession be held strictly responsible for the results of their own incompetency or malpractice"—or in other words it is sufficient to shut the stable door after the horse has escaped. Such is not the spirit of the age, however. We go now on the principle that "prevention is better than cure," and it is surely rather late in the day to argue it is unnecessary for the law to protect the public against imposture because it ought to be able to take care of itself. The article in question was prompted by the withdrawal of the Bill of the Ontario Association of Architects for the amendment of their Bill passed two years ago, but the writer betrays his political bias and sneers at reform because it is fostered by those who hold different views to his own. Most of the newspapers have shown in this connection that this so-called "class legislation " is an absolute necessity, and in the interest of the public should be extended to architects. It is not a case of closing up the profession for the benefit of a few practising architects, but it is for the purpose of enforcing those who will have the lives of individuals in their hands, to prepare themselves by careful study and prove themselves capable by rigid examination to carry out buildings in a manner that shall con— duce to the safety of the occupiers. "Official inspection" and "governmental licensing has and constantly does show itself to be insufficient, insomuch as we continually hear of the collapsing of buildings, and know to our cost of the awful effects of unsanitary houses and factories. There is a wide distinction between trade unionism and "class legislation," of which however, the writer of the article in question is wilfully ignorant. We notice the article only because of the mischief such thoughtless words may do among those who are easily lead by what they see in print, and as we have done so we would suggest to those who may have been influenced by it to use their own common sense and ask themselves how they would feel if through the incompetency of a so-called "architect" they became injured in limb or ruined in constitution for the rest of their lives— whether they would not prefer to have that guarantee that the building they intend to occupy is well built which "class legislation" in connection with the architectural profession would give.



THE estimated expenditure of the City of Toronto for the year 1892 was $1,200,000 this year it is $1,700,000, an increase of half a million dollars. The <firm>Toronto Street Railway Company </firm>are taking advantage of this circumstance and of the demand of the citizens for a reduction of expenditure to endeavor to secure a change in their agreement with the city. They offer to put down and keep in repair the pavements on the track allowances on condition that they shall be relieved of the payment of the yearly rental of $800 per mile of track as provided for by the agreement. The citizens and their representatives in Council should have no difficulty in discerning in this proposal an attempt to repeat the act of the cunning Jacob towards his brother Esau and should promptly refuse to give up great and permanent privileges in return for a temporary financial accommodation The city has already completed more than two-thirds of

	the permenant	of a	little more than

	$400,000.	It must surely finance and finish 	balance of the

undertaking and maintain its control of the streets. A comparatively small yearly amount in addition to the rental of $65,000 or $70,000 received from the Street Railway Company would be sufficient to pay the interest on the cost of the pavements pro— vide a sinking fund for the redemption of the debentures and defray the cost of repairs. So far as the latter item is concerned, it is not likely to prove a very large one. The contractors who construct the pavements will be required under a guarantee to keep them in repair for five years. A concrete foundation may be taken to last fully thirty years, which is the lifetime of the street railway agreement. In some of the busiest streets of London the surface of asphalt roadways last for fourteen or fifteen years. As there would be little traffic upon the track allowances, the surface would not require renewal for even a longer period than that mentioned therefore, as we have said, the expenditure under the head of repairs is likely to be light. There are other than financial considerations involved, however. For years the city experienced difficulty and expense consequent upon almost constant litigation in the effort to compel the former lesees of the street railway to perform their share of the work of maintaining the streets. Under the new agreement the city has absolute control of the streets, and under no consideration should this control be surrendered.

<article title=" THE NEW LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS FOR BRITISH COLUMBIA " author="">

THE NEW	LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS FOR BRITISH COLUMBIA.

THE Government of British Columbia are losing no time in proceeding with the erection of the new <building>Provincial Legislative Buildings, Victoria</building>. Advices from British Columbia state that the contract for the foundation has already been let at the

price of $56,000. The prompt action of the government in this matter will nullify the efforts of the residents of the mainland to prevent the work from going forward and to secure the removal of the seat of legislation from Victoria, The present Government may be turned out of office by the dissatisfied electors at the approaching election, but it will then in all probability be too late to stop the erection of the new buildings.

<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

SECOND PREMIATED DESIGN FOR NEW LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS AT VICTORIA, B. C.—<person>T C. SORBY,

</person>ARCHITECT, VICTORIA.

DESIGN FOR	A BARONIAL MANSION.- <person>ERIC MANN</person>, ARCHITECT, MONTREAL.

DESIGN FOR A VILLAGE CHURCH.—<firm>GREGG & GREGG</firm>,  ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.

	DETAILS	FOR A SMALL HOUSE.



<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

<assoc>ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS</assoc>.

A MEETING of the Council was held on June 1st. The report of the committee appointed to obtain legislation amending the Act of Incorporation was received, and the Council approved of the action of the committee in withdrawing the bill of amendment. A circular letter has been issued by the President to the members of the Association stating the circumstances which made necessary the withdrawal of the bill.

* *

*

Application to members for the annual fee was postponed until the success or failure of the attempt to procure amendment of the bill had been settled. The Council has decided to keep the fee as low as possible for the next year or two. A schedule has been sent to all members and the Registrar hopes that as the fee is now so small there will be a prompt response that will offset the delay in making the application and that he may be able to return all fees to the Treasurer on July 1st.

	*	*

*

The curriculum, for the examinations of 1894 was approved

by the Council and has been issued to all students.

* *

*

As many students have changed their addresses without notifying him of the change, the Registrar would be glad to receive from every student a Post card stating the student's correct address. If by this means it is discovered that any copies of the curriculum have been misdirected second copies will be

sent correctly addressed.

* *

*



The Registrar begs to remind members of the Association that he has copies the form of indenture approved the convention of 1892 and will issue them to all members who require them.

