TAYLOR BROTHERS,

	<doctype type="text;ad">72	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER	June, 1863

<article title=" HOARD MEASUREMENTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.

HOARD MEASUREMENTS—Boards are sold by superficial measurement, at so much per foot of an inch or less in thickness adding one-fourth to the price for each quarter of an inch thickness over an inch. It sometimes happens that a board is tapering, being wider at one end than the other. When this is the case (if it be a true taper), add the width of both ends together, and half their sum will express the average width of the board. Again, if the board does not taper regularly, take the following course to find its area:

1.	Measure the widths at several places equidistant.

2.	Add together the different breadths, and half the two extremes.

3.	Multiply this suns by the straight side of the board and divide the product by the number of parts into which the hoard was divided. It is usual in measuring rough lumber, to pay no attention to fractions of an inch in the width of the stuff If the fraction is more than half an inch it is counted as an inch if less than half an inch it is not counted. Thus, a board 10 5/8 inches wide would he measured as 11 inches wide if only 10 3/8 inches wide the board will pass only as so inches. —National Builder.

<article title=" PAINTS AND  SHINGLES " author="">PAINTS AND  SHINGLES.—The Timberman very wisely remarks that it has always seemed singular that in the use of paint to preserve wood exposed to the weather, the fact that a shingle roof was omitted from the catalogue was invariably the rule. Thus idea of oversight was one of the things in which custom becomes habit, and because every one else did so, all the rest followed suit. it is safe to presume that the custom of leaving the shingle roof unpainted originated in its angular form being less exposed to the after effects of rain and snow. A little thought will show the folly of such a conclusion when remembering the frail nature of a shingle and the slight fastening it has. If paint would be useful to any weather exposed surface it would certainly be so on the roof. The fact goes without telling, and its the present style of suburban residences, the roof receives its share of paint along with the rest of the building, thus at once combining the useful with the beautiful. It is certainly singular that painting of roofs has not always prevailed, and it adds much to the finish and character of the building to see the roof painted. When the thin, slender nature of the shingle is taken into consideration, it will be plain to every one that sun cracks will easily go through the shingle, and to that extent render it worthless. The only way to overcome this is to paint and always keep the shingles painted.

Hayes' Patent Steel Lath





The tenacity of the bond and other features are unequalled.









Nor being used in the " Grand Seminaire Montreal





... WE Also Manufacture ...





Copper, Galvanized Iron and Painted Steel Shingles and Tiles, Sheet Steel Pressed Brick and other Siding Plates, Galvanized and Painted Pressed Corrugated Iron.

Correspondence Solicited







METALLIC ROOFING CO., LIMITED.

Factories; MONTREAL A AND TORONTO.

	30 St. Francois-Xavier St., Montreal,	or	84 Yonge Street, Toronto.



DON VALLEY PRESSED BRICKS STILL LEAD THE MARKET.



Aggregate sales for 1892 nearly as large as the combined output of all other

Canadian manufacturers    

	specialties	FOR 1893



STANDARD RED AND BUFFS, and many new colors, including

Browns MOTTLES GREYS etc., etc.

The elegant finish on our goods adapts them for inside decorations and mantels.

Terra Cotta and Enameled Bricks

IN ALL SHADES.

Office and Show-rooms:



6o Adelaide Street East, TORONTO.



A GREAT LOSS !

IF you have any pipes or boilers uncovered, you are

 losing on same at the rate of 8o cents every year on each square foot of surface exposed. By having them covered with our Mineral Wool Sectional Covering you will save 8510232f this loss. The saving thus effected in fuel will in one year more than pay the cost of covering, which we guarantee to last as long as the pipes. Our covering is the best fuel saver on the market.



CANADIAN MINERAL WOOL CO.. Ltd..