<doctype type="text">	June, 1893	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	7'

<article title=" QUALITY OF ROOFING SLATES " author="Mansfield">

QUALITY OF ROOFING SLATES.

The following are the general conclusions reached as the result of a series of tests of roofing slates, as given by Mr. Mansfield Merriam at the September, 1892, meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers:

1.	Slates containing soft ribbons are, by common consent, of an inferior quality, and should not be used in good work.

2.	The soft roofing slates weigh about 173 pounds per cubic foot, and the best qualities have a modulus of rupture of from 7,000 to 10,000 pounds per square inch.

3.	The stronger the slate, the greater is its toughness and softness, and the less is it's porosity and credibility

4.	Softness, or liability to abrasion, does not indicate inferior roofing slate, but on the contrary it is an indication of strength and good weathering qualities ties.

5.	The strongest slate stands highest in weathering qualities, so that a flexural test affords an excellent index of all its properties, particularly if the ultimate deflection and the manner of rupture he noted.

6.	The strongest and best slate has the highest percentage of silicates of iron and aluminum, but is not necessarily the lowest in carbonates of lime

and magnesia.

7.	Chemical analyses give only imperfect conclusions regarding the weathering qualities of slate, and they do not satisfactorily explain the physical properties.

8.	Architects and engineers who write specifications for roofing slate will







CREDIT VALLEY DROWN

from Carroll & Vick's NO.	Quarry,

Credit Forks. Ont.

<article title=" CREDIT VALLEY DROWN " author="">

SANDSTONE, fine grained, reddish brown. Contains quartz, and a little felspar and mica. The stone is in beds of four feet and under, and can be handled in pieces up to five tons. Quarry 300 yards from Railway.

probably obtain a more satisfactory quality if they insert requirements for a flexural test to he made on several specimens picked at random out of each lot.

9.	Although the field of this investigation is probably not sufficiently extended to fully warrant the recommendation, it is suggested that such specifications should require roofing slates to have a modulus of rupture, as determined by the flexural test, greater than 7,000 pounds per square inch.



THE KENT FREESTONE QUARRY.

The Moneton, N. 13., Times states that the formation of a joint stock company is in contemplation to develop the Kent freestone quarry situated on the Moneton and Buctouche railroad. This quarry, opened a few years ago, consists of 30 acres, on the bank of the Cocagne river. The depth of stone to the level of water in the river where the quarry is now being worked is 6o feet, and further up the stream the quarry shows a solid body of stone

125 feet deep. Lack of capital has up to the present hindered the proper development of this quarry, as well as some others in the same province.



The capital stock of the Gurney Foundry Co., Toronto, has been increased from $40,000 to $350,000.



The business of the Toronto Furance Co. will in future he carried on by the Toronto Furnace and Crematory Co., which has lately been incorporated with a capital stock of $40,000.

The Steel Clad Bath and Metal Co., of Toronto, who a year or so ago established a factory for the manufacture of the specialties at Detroit, Mich., have lately shipped to England the necessary plant for a factory which it has been decided to establish there. This is certainly an evidence of commendable enterprise.

14905	pounds is the average crushing strength per square inch of our Credit Valley Brown Stone.



The highest standard of test attained by any pure Sandstone in America.

In	of the facts above stated, we have pleasure in directing your attention to

	accompanying table, showing the result of the test of our stone, in connection with

the series of tests of building stones conducted in 1892 at the School of Practical Science, Toronto, under the direction of a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects.

By referring to the results of the tests above mentioned, it will be seen that the average crushing stress of the majority of Canadian and American sandstones is far below that of ours, the difference in our favor ranging from 75 to 50 per cent.

The Credit Valley Brown Stone, owing to its modest tone, harmonizes beautiful with red or cream colored brick.

It has been reported that there is difficulty in obtaining Credit Valley Brown Stone. To correct this mistaken notion, we wish to state to architects and tile public that we have 40,000 cubic feet of stone ready to ship on the shortest notice, which can he followed up with an unlimited supply. Last year we made extensive additions to our plant and opened up new quarries and mines and will supply promptly all orders given to us or our agents







Quarries CARROLL, VICK & CO.

	Credit Forks Ont.	Office 84 Adelaide St. West. TORONTO

Montreal Agents: T. A. MORRISON & CO., 118 St. Peter Street.



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS,

The SEMI-ANNUAL EXAM 1 NATION for admission to study and for registration will he held in the rooms of the Association No. t86 St. James Street, on

TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY,

the twenty-seventy and twenty-eighth days of  July at so a. in. each day.

Intending candidates are required to give one months notice to the undersigned the lees are

	For admission to study	$10.00

	For registration	25.00

ALEX. C. HUTCHISON

Sec. P. Q. A. A.







HEATING

AND







VENTILATION

The FULLER & WARREN SYSTEM

of Warming, Ventilating and Sanitary Construction for Schools and Public Buildings is tile best and most economical in use.





Robb Engineering Co.

(LIMITED)

	AMHERST,	-	NOVA SCOTIA,

Agents for Canada.

ARTISTIC. WALL· HANGINGS Over 75 Stock Patterns

in this the best of Relief Decorations, comprising Dadoes, Hangings, Friezes, Ceilings, Mouldings and Art Panels.

.CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION







M.	Staunton & Co.

