	<doctype type="text">70	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	June, 1893

<article title=" STRENGTH OF CONCRETE " author="">

STRENGTH OF CONCRETE.

A PAPER recently read before the Society of Architects, London, by Mr. H. W. Chubb referred to the use of concrete as a material in building fireproof structures. The specimens of concrete which Mr. Chubb mentioned as having been tested by Mr. J. J. Webster, M. I. C. E., had been specially prepared. The following table shows their composition, together with the results which were obtained









































































<article title=" DOORWAYS " author="">

DOORWAYS.

A VERY important feature of the house in mote than one respect is the doorway. It is in fact a most prominent part of the structure, says Tretoil, and only too many are the possibilities between making it a work of art like the masterpieces of Ghiberti on the Baptistery in Florence, or leaving it a mere aperture in a monotonous expanse of wall, which reminds us forcibly of the hole in the fence or the crude entrance of a tent, from which the door doubtless took its origin.

In many instances the entire effect of an otherwise pleasing structure is hopelessly marred by the treatment accorded the doorway, and more than one facade is reduced to time commonplace by the utter neglect or the architectural decoration to which the door, if any part of the building is most legitimately entitled. To the eye, the doorway and the roof line are the critical points in a building, and time good treatment of either will do much toward remedying the defects of a poor design.

It will hardly do, however, to blame the architects for the stagnation of public taste for half a century in regard to architecturally meritorious doorways. In this country, particularly among a class of owners that, above all others, might have done so much to bring about the much needed revolution of an architectural sense, art has been subjected to rules and restrictions that might aptly apply to card etiquette, but the effect of which upon architecture can only be deplored. When a doorway essentially ugly has come to be considered the only proper thing by a vast number of people in the community, the era of the studied commonplace can be said to have reached the climax.

This was pre-eminently the case some twenty years ago. Our revolutionary forefathers in this respect had better taste they followed the classical ideals they had with a zeal that gave us, if not a new style, at least a strong impulse toward something good. The decadence was, however, rapid. In 1850 doorways were mere holes in the wall, and thereafter followed a period of barren ugliness and (lull respectability, an era of unredeemed bad taste, from which the newer departures in architecture, and its more general appreciation, are beginning to save us.

FLOWER DECORATION. <article title=" FLOWER DECORATION " author="">

DECORATION by means of natural flowers has from time immemorial been recognized as the most beautiful and effective method it is possible to conceive, the one and only disadvantage it possesses being its necessarily temporary character. It is this feeling that lead to the introduction of floral design cut in solid materials, of which we have such exquisite examples in the architecture of the thirteenth century. But all attempts at live flower decoration heretofore carried out appears to be eclipsed and thrown into the shade by the display in the Assembly hall of the World's Fair upon the occasion of its formal opening by the President of the United States. A model of the Washington capital made of white flowers was the central feature, the grounds in which the building stands being represented by real plants in miniature. The stage of the hall was banked up with palms and cut flowers while the head stairway was covered with a drapery of white and gold, festooned with smilax and tiny lamps. Pillars were traceried with smilax and flowers, while overhead canopies of white and gold hung with flags completed the gorgeous and tasteful scene. It is said that $10,000 was expended in this decoration of an hour.



Says "Goth" in the Building News: An art-critic complains of our modern stained glass. Greatly as we have progressed, there is yet a vast gulf between the effect of some 01(1 glass and that produced to-day. It may be that, like wine, stained glass improves with age on many tints there can be no doubt that time has a mellowing effect. The quality that always seems to me to be wanting nowadays is the sparkle and scintillation of old glass such as we find in some of the Continental cathedrals. I suppose that the real secret of the matter is that we cannot get away from the idea that a stained-glass window is, and should be, a picture; whereas, considered sa a decorative feature, it should be subordinate to the architecture and contribute to the general effect. Then there are two schools on the one hand the advocates for dark effects and heavy coloring in broad masses, and on the other the more delicate style in which light and light tints play an important part, and the color is concentrated into little points with jewel-like effect. Considering the technical difficulties of the art, there is no need to despair, for, relatively, it has advanced as much as other handicrafts.

<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.

A correspondent of the London Ironmonger furnishes a recipe which is easily tried and probably efficacious. He writes as follows: People often want to know how the steaming of windows can be obviated. I am told it is done in these parts with a solution & glycerin. Fifty-five grams (about 2 oz.) of glycerin dissolved in one liter of diluted alcohol (about two-thirds alcohol and one-third water). After this solution has become quite clear moisten linen or leather with it and rub the window on the inside, it keeps the glass clear from Freezing and steaming.

<article title=" RESISTANCE OF MASONRY ARCHES " author="">

RESISTANCE OF MASONRY ARCHES—The Austrian Society of Engineers and Architects is now engaged in a series of very important experiments on the resistance of masonry arches. Sufficient is now known of the strength and elasticity of stone and cements, says Engineering, London, to render the theory of the elastic arch applicable to masonry arches which have been and still are designed purely by empiricism, so that in many cases very little is known as to thc actual stresses carried by the structures, and there is no doubt that the factor of safety is in many cases excessive. The experiments to be carried out will afford data as to the permissible working stresses, and the design and arches will therefore be simplified. One group of experiments will he devoted to researches of thc elastic and resistant properties of the materials to be used in constructing the arches to bc experimented on

<article title=" DURABILITY OF TERRA Cotta " author="">

DURABILITY OF TERRA Cotta.—During the discussion following the reading of certain papers on terra cotta before thc Royal Institute of British Architects Sir Henry Doulton said As to its durability, I may perhaps mention two examples which occur to me as within my own observation. The figure of Britannia on the top of the Exchange at Liverpool was made a hundred years ago at Lambeth, and also the figure of St. John Crosby, which was made, when I was a little boy, at Lambeth. These especially the figure of Brittania, though exposed to adverse influences, are as perfect to-day as on that of their erection. There happened to be two large statutes on the triangular piece of ground opposite St. Thomas Hospital, brought here recently, also made at Lambeth, which are ninety-six years old and which have been quite. untouched by time. There is, of course, terra cotta and terra cotta; but there is no reason why terra cotta should not be absolutely imperishable

