<doctype type="text">July, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE LATE JOHN A. WILLS " author="">

THE LATE JOHN A. WILLS.

IT becomes our painful duty to chronicle the unexpected death on the 16th of June, of Mr. John A. Wills, Chief Engineer at the Toronto Custom House, and Chairman of the Board of Management of the Toronto Technical School. Mr. Wills, who was in his 48th year, was possessed of a naturally strong physical organization, and until the last two years enjoyed the best of health. Of late he was a sufferer from Bright's disease, and early last spring passed through a severe illness which several times threatened to have a fatal ending. Greatly to the comfort of his family and many friends, what seemed to be a marked improvement in his condition manifested itself a few weeks ago be gained strength rapidly and was able to go down town. But a few hours previous to his death he drove around town with a friend who was on a visit to Toronto. After returning from the drive he lay down to sleep—which proved to be the sleep of death—-for he passed quietly away a few hours later without having regained consciousness 

The deceased was a native of Ottawa, in which locality his parents were among the first settlers. After graduating from college, he entered as an apprentice the machine shops of Messrs. E. & C. E. Gilbert, at Montreal, who at that time were the principal manufacturers in Canada of marine engines. On completing his apprenticeship he went to the New England States, where he spent several years.

On his return to Canada he received the appointment of Chief Engineer of the Dominion Parliament Buildings, which position he held for three or four years, when at his own request he was transferred to Toronto and assumed the duties of the position which he occupied at the time of his

death and for seventeen years previously. He took an active interest in the subject of technical education, and upon the organization of the Toronto Technical School was elected to the Board of Management and at the commencement of the present year was called to preside.

 His cheerful, sympathetic disposition made for him a multitude of friends, to whom his sudden death is the subject of profound regret.



<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

THE second annual excursion and picnic under the auspices of the Exchange, took place at Wilson Park, N. Y., on Wednesday, the 28th of June. The new and comfortable steamer, "Garden City," carried the pleasure seekers across the lake in less than three hours, and the water being smooth the time spent on the water was greatly enjoyed by all.

About two hundred members and friends of the Exchange participated in the outing. Business engagements prevented the attendance of some, while the threatening aspect of thc weather in the early part of the day and the nearness of Dominion Day militated against a larger attendance.

On the whole, however, the Exchange are to be congratulated on the success and enjoyment which marked the occasion, and which it is hoped will encourage them to maintain the annual excursion and picnic during many future years.

The steamer made two trips, leaving Toronto at 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. Fortunately the sky which in the morning was overcast with heavy clouds, gradually cleared as the sun's bright rays forced their way through and smiled graciously down upon the pleasure-seekers.

The voyage was much shortened and its enjoyment enhanced by the humorous character impersonations of Prof. Stuart and the charming music discoursed by Burton's orchestra. These also entertained the company in the pavilion after the arrival at the park, as well as on the return trip.

One of the principal events of the day was the baseball match, the rival teams representing respectively the builders and supply men. The builders' nine, which was captained by Mr. T. Cannon, was composed as follows: Messrs. T. Cannon, Benjamin Brick, Harry Martin, John Hanrahan, Eli Wickett, Jas. Crang, jr., E. B. Axeworthy, Jethro Crang, Wm. Rowe.

The supply men were captained by Mr. John Maloney, their nine being composed of Messrs. Maloney, W. Whillans, B. McKenny, R. Elliot, W. Dickey, B. Anderson, L. Robertson, —. Mowat, W. Hollyman.

It was agreed that the playing should last for two hours. At the end of that period the supply men had scored 24 runs, while the builders had gained but 12. The game was a most interesting one and the playing on both sides very creditable, notwithstanding that the score from a professional standpoint might be regarded as a trifle large.

An interesting program of sports. was also provided for the children, with suitable prizes for the winners. These special features and the excellent boating facilities served to pleasantly

pass the time at the company's disposal. The only regret which we heard expressed was that, in view of the fishing possibilities, Mr. David Williams should have neglected to take with him a hook and line. It was a case of "what things one sees when he hasn't a gun."

The thanks of all who participated in this pleasant outing are due to the following gentlemen who composed the Committee of Management Messrs. Thos. Cannon, chairman; David Williams, treasurer John Phillips, secretary; John Maloney, Benjamin Brick, Harry Martin, M. Murphy, W. Williams, Joseph Brown, John Barnard and John Aldridge.

<article title=" CANADIAN ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS " author="">

CANADIAN ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS.

At a recent meeting of the Exchange, the subject of endeavoring to bring about the organization of a provincial or Dominion Association of Master Builders was discussed. While it was felt that the present, perhaps, owing to the prevailing depression, might not be the most favorable time to attempt the organization of such an Association, yet it was thought that the idea might to some extent be worked up. The Secretary was accordingly instructed to communicate with the Secretaries of the Builders' Exchanges in Hamilton, London, St. Thomas and Ottawa for the purpose of getting an expression of opinion on the subject. The advantages of such an organization have more than once been referred to in these columns, and we hope in the near future to see the proposal assume tangible form.



LEGAL DECISIONS. <article title=" LEGAL DECISIONS " author="">

AN ARCHITECT AND	DEFECTIVE DRAINS.—We learn from the British Architect that in the Queen's Bench Division the other day, before Justices Mathew and Wright, the case of Levenberg v. Wykes came on for hearing. It was an appeal by the defendant, an architect, from the judgment of the County Court Judge at Birmingham after the finding of a jury. The defendant was architect of some houses built in Portland Road, Edgbaston, in 1878, and plaintiffs case was in that year, when there was a nuisance on the premises and the drains were opened, it was found that they had not been constructed in accordance with the plans deposited with the local authority. An action was therefore brought against the defendant for fraudulently representing that they had been so constructed, and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff. Mr. Hugo Young, for defendant, now contended that there was no evidence on which the jury could so find, that defendant had no representation as to the drains, and that he had altered them in the exercise of his discretion under the contract. Mr. Turrell, for the respondent urged that the verdict of the jury must stand, as there was ample evidence on which they could find as they had done. Mr. Justice Mathew, in giving judgment, said the sole question for the Court was whether

there was evidence in the case on which the jury could reasonably find as they had done. He was satisfied that there was that evidence, and he was also satisfied that the learned judge, in his summing up, told the jury the law with great clearness. In fact, he represented the case in such a way that the jury, if they were disposed to take a favorable view or the defendant's conduct, had an opportunity of doing so, but they considered that the plaintiff had made out his case, and so found. The appeal would be dismissed with costs. Mr. Justice Wright concurred.





QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

[Readers are invited to ask through this department for any information which they may require on lines consistent with the objects of the paper. Every effort will be made to furnish satisfactory answers to all such inquiries. Readers are requested to. supply information which would assist us in our replies. The names and addresses of correspondents must accompany their communications, but not necessarily for publication





C.	H. W., Peterboro', writes: Can you inform me where I may obtain the best slate for blackboards? I have tested several kinds of composition offered as a substitute for slate for this purpose, but they are to my mind not satisfactory. I have examined the advertisement pages of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, without finding the name of any dealer in slate for this purpose.

ANS.—We understand that at Rockland, Que., slate is to be found which is well adapted for blackboards, and that a new company has recently purchased and undertaken to develop these quarries



Charles E. Thibault and Joseph Perrault, have been registered to carry on business In Montreal as plumbers under the firm name of Thibault & Perrault.

