	<doctype type="text">78	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	July, 1893



#6.

<article title=" SANITATION HEAT LIGHT " author="">

SANITATION HEAT LIGHT.

<article title=" ASSOCIATION OF EXECUTIVE HEALTH OFFICERS " author="">

ASSOCIATION OF EXECUTIVE HEALTH OFFICERS.

THE eighth annual meeting of the above Association was held at the city of Guelph Ont., on the 27th and 28th of June. The proceedings were presided over by the President, Mr. Willis Chipman, C. E.

An address of welcome was presented by the mayor, and by the Local Board of Health.

Four sessions were held, one of which took the form of a public meeting, to which the citizens were invited.

Among the papers presented and discussed were the following :—" Diphtheria Epidemics and how Principally Propagated," by C. A. Hodgetts, M. D., Toronto; "Notes on the Prevention of Disease," by A. Groves, M.D., Fergus; "Toronto Water Supply," by J. J. Cassidy, M. D., Chairman Provincial Board of Health, Toronto ; "Defences of the Province against Cholera," by J. Coventry, M. D., Medical Health Officer, Windsor; "Our Schools in Relation to Health," by Prof. J. Mills, M. A., President Agricultural College, Guelph ; "The Danger of a Smallpox Epidemic," by P. H. Bryce, M. A., M. D., Secretary Provincial Board of Health, Toronto; "Systems of Sewerage available for Ontario Towns and Villages," by Alan Macdougall, C. E., Toronto; "Public Abattoirs, their Necessity and Benefits," by J. Wallace, M. D., Alma.

The following are the officers elect for the ensuing year

President. Dr. Cameron, Owen Sound; First Vice-president, Alan Macdougall. C. E., Toronto; Second Vice-president, Dr. Howitt, Guelph; Secretary-treasurer, Dr. P. H. Bryce, Toronto; Executive Committee, Dr. Hall, Chatham; Dr. Coventry, Windsor; Dr. Sheard, Toronto; Dr. Griffin, Brantford ; Dr. McCrimmon, Palermo.

<article title=" NEW PLUMBING BY-LAW OF THE CITY OF MONTREAL " author="">

NEW PLUMBING BY-LAW OF THE CITY OF MONTREAL.

FOLLOWING is the text of an ordinance which is about to be adopted in the city of Montreal for the regulation of plumbing. This ordinance has been revised by and received the approval of the Montreal Sanitary Association. We are assured' that the ordinance will probably pass the Council without material amendment:

Sec. 1. All plumbing and house drainage in the city shall be made and constructed in accordance with the following rules, which shall be binding on all parties concerned:

(1)—No drain or plumbing work shall hereafter be made unless plans, drawings and a description of the same shall have been previously deposited by the proprietor, or his representative, in the health office, at least eight days before the commencement of the work, and unless such plans and drawings shall have been approved of by the authorized officer; and in case of repairs or alterations affected by sanitary regulations, notice shall be given to the health department within 24 hours;

-(2)-----No part of the work shall be covered or concealed in any way until after it has been examined and approved of by the inspector; and notice shall be given to the health department when the work is sufficiently advanced for such inspection

(3)—The water department shall refuse to turn on the water unless the demand for the same is accompanied by a certificate of the inspector, to the effect that the work has been inspected, "'and found to be in accordance with said rules;

(4)—The material used shall be of good quality and free from defects, and the work shall he executed in a thorough and workmanlike manner;

(5)—The arrangement of the soil, waste and ventilation pipes shall be as direct as possible;

(6)—The soil, drain, waste and ventilation pipes shall, if practicable, be at all times exposed to view ready for inspection and for convenience in repairing

(7)—When necessarily placed within partitions or recesses of walls, soil, drain, waste or ventilation pipes shall be covered with woodwork so fastened with hinges, or round headed screws, as to be readily uncovered;

(8)—Every house or building shall be separately and independently connected with the street sewer, in front of such house or building, or with such other sewer as shall be designated by the board of health

(9)—Every house drain shall be of iron, with a fall of at least ¼ inch to the foot, and no joint shall be made directly under the wall of the house; moreover, where water-closets discharge into it, it shall be at least 4 and not more than 6 inches in diameter, and be laid in a straight line if possible. All changes in direction shall be laid with curved pipes and all connections with Y branch pipes and curved bends;

(l0)--- Every such drain put in and covered without due notice to the health department shall be un covered for inspection within 24 hours, if required by the inspector

 (1 1)—No brick, sheet metal, earthenware or chimney flue shall be used as a sewer ventilator, or to ventilate any trap, drain, soil or waste pipe;

(12)—Soil pipes shall be of cast iron of the weight specified in subsection 20, and shall extend at least two feet above the highest part of the roof or coping, light, shaft louvres, window or other opening; they shall be of the same size throughout, and

in no case shall they be less than four inches in diameter ; no cap or cowl shall be affixed to the same

(13)—Soil, waste and vent pipes in as extension, shall be carried above the roof of the main building when they are closer than twenty feet to the windows of the main building or adjoining houses

(14)—The vent-pipe from the horn of a water-closet shall be required only when the closet is at a distance of fifteen feet from the main ventilation pipe of the drain;

(15)—Rain-water leaders shall not be connected with sewers unless by special permission of the board of health;

(16)—Joints of sewers and soil pipes shall be gas and water tight;

(17)—When no water-closet exists, ventilated in accordance with the rules aforesaid, the main waste pipes shall be of lead or iron of the weight specified in subsection 20, and shall be not less than 2 inches in diameter unless there are more than four sinks, in which case the size shall be 3 inches in diameter and every such pipe shall be continued full size through the roof in the manner prescribed for soil pipes;

(18) When lead pipes are used to connect fixtures with vertical soil or waste pipes, or to connect traps with vertical vent pipes, they shall not be lighter than six lbs. sheet lead to the foot;

(19)—There shall be no traps in connection with vertical soil or waste pipes, unless by special permission of the board of health

(20)—All pipes shall be sound and free from holes or cracks;

(21)—The following weight per lineal foot shall be accepted as standard:

IRON PIPES.



For Plumbing work.

2 inch 4 pounds per lineal foot.'

3 '' 5	" " " "

	4

	"	"	"	"	"

9

	5	12	"	''	"	'

	9	15	"	"	''





For drain work.

4 inch 12½ pounds per lineal foot.

	6	"	20	"	"	"





LEAD PIPES.



For waste sink pipes.

2 inch 10 pounds per lineal yard.

	4	"	15	"	''	" 





Lead waste pipes, bends or cesspools shall be equal to not less than 6 lbs. per square foot of sheet lead;

(22)—The fittings used in connection with such pipes shall correspond with them in weight and quality;

(23)—No tar-coated cast iron pipes shall be used

(24)——The plumbing work shall be tested by the Inspector in the presence of the plumber, (when the latter is required to be present) with the peppermint, smoke, water or any other test approved by the board of health

(25) —When defective pipes are discovered, they shall be removed and replaced by sound pipes; defective joints shall be made tight and every part of the work in which defects are found shall be made to conform to the present rules

(26)—Joints in iron drain, soil and waste pipes, shall he so filled with oakum and lead and hand caulked so as to make them gas tight, and they shall not he painted, varnished, tarred or puttied over until after inspection, unless the inspector does not signify his approval or disapproval of the work within 36 hours after the health department shall have been notified that the work is ready for inspection; the said joints may also he screwed joints ; should the work prove to be satisfactorily executed in the judgment of the inspector, he shall grant a certificate to that effect to the person concerned

(27)—All connections of lead with iron pipes shall be made with a brass or copper sleeve or ferrule of the same size as lead pipe, put in the hub of the branch of the iron pipe and caulked with lead; and the lead pipe shall be attached to the ferrule by a wiped or overcast joint

(28)—All connections of lead pipes, shall, where practicable, be by wiped joints;

(29)—No tile pipe shall be connected with the soil or waste pipe unless the same be provided with a flange to admit of a proper connection being made;

(3o)—Every water-closet, urinal, sink, basin, wash tray, bath, and every tub shall be separately and effectively trapped. This rule shall apply to a set of tubs, but only one trap shall be required for the set -;

(31)—The connections between iron and tile pipes shall he made with the best Portland or Roman cement, or by such other mode as may he approved of by the board;

(32)—Traps shall be placed as near the fixtures as practicable, and in no case shall they be distant more than two feet from the fixtures

(33)—There shall be only one trap under the water-closet and that immediately beneath the same

- -All waste pipe fixtures other than water-closets, shall be provided at the inlet of such fixtures with strong metallic

