	<doctype type="text">74	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT and	July, 1983



which was $250,000, had been exceeded by $200,000. The investigation has shown that the work was not let by contact, but was clone by day labor under the supervision of government officials. It would be instructive to learn why the usual custom of letting such work by contract was departed from in this instance, and under whose authority the departure was made. It is also pertinent to enquire why, having decided to do the work by day labor, the government superintendent did not hire direct the mechanics, laborers and teams required, instead of making a contract with a third party to supply them at prices which enabled him to pocket a substantial commission on the transaction. The thing has the appearance of having been worked in this way for the deliberate purpose of enriching certain individuals at thc expense of the government and the country. The evidence given before the investigating Commission strongly supports this view. The testimony is that double the number of men, horses, and in some cases material, were provided and paid for than were required, that the prices paid for both work and material were largely in excess of the market value, and that material was paid for by the government which was diverted to the use of private individuals connected with the work. In short, as we have said, there appears to have been an organized and successful effort on the part of everybody to rob the government, as was illustrated by the remark of a laborer who, when some one suggested that less men were required to do the work, replied "Mind your own business—-we're working for the government." It is to be hoped that a severe example will be made of persons who may be proved guilty of having conspired to squander the public funds for their own benefit and that of their friends. The boodling propensity which seems to have obtained such deep root must, if possible, be stamped out.



<article title=" LEAD " author="">

LEAD water pipes that are used on streets occupied by electric railways who use rail for a ground and return, are found in various places to be seriously affected by the eating away of the outside old pipe by electrolytic action. In the city of Hamilton the water department have been compelled to renew the service pipes in quite a few places, the worst affected seeming to be in close proximity to the power house. It would perhaps be quite a difficult matter to advance a proper theory for this result. It is perhaps caused by the pipe being laid in a particularly dry sandy soil, and by the return current in its effort to reach a good ground finding such ground by way of these lead pipes to the water mains in preference to forcing its way to a wet spot in the ground through dry sand or perhaps rock. That it should occur in the immediate vicinity of the power house is more difficult to account for, unless it be that the rail connections on the ground plate at that end offer a greater resistance to the passing of the current than does the intervening earth between the rails and these numerous water service pipes. In the case of Hamilton the water mains arc several feet higher than the level of the bay and the streets all dip at a great angle to the bay, forming thereby a water shed that must result in a somewhat dry sub-soil. That the pipe are eaten away as the result of the current going to ground through them there can be no doubt, and that this action is purely an oxidization of the metal through the electrolytic action is reasonably certain. To remedy the trouble we think will be quire a difficult matter, but as experiments in that direction will no doubt be the order of the day, we would suggest the following as worthy of consideration and trial: Wrap the pipe with a covering of tarred (pine tar) hemp about half an inch thick before burying it give the outside (of the pipe a thick coat (or two or three coats of a good, bard, but elastic japan. which has been well dried in an oven; let the outside of the pipe bc enamelled with an elastic enamel the same as is now being used on the inside of some lead water pipes ; surround the pipe by a square box some three or four inches in internal diameter, thereby allowing an air space as an insulator; last but not least, see that the rails are well grounded, bearing in mind the fact that a hole dug some six or seven feet in the ground and a large piece of an oil boiler stuck in with a number 4 galvanized iron connection to the rail is simply no ground at all in a sandy soil, and would not be much better in a pool of water. For the carrying of heavy currents such as are used in street railway work, a good ground should consist of at least 100 square feet of exposed metallic surface, preferably copper, covered on its two sides with at least one foot in thickness of fine gas coke and buried in decidedly moist earth, and connected to each rail by a No. oooo copper wire well rivetted and sweated on. With such a ground every quarter of a mile, and good and sufficient bonds between the rails we predict that the eating away of lead water pipes would soon he a thing of the past.

<article title=" CANADIAN PRESSED BRICK IN THE UNITED STATES " author="">

CANADIAN PRESSED BRICK IN THE UNITED STATES.

A CANADIAN manufacturer of pressed brick informs us that he has an order from Buffalo for 200,000 bricks, and that other Canadian firms in the same line are shipping quite extensively to eastern American cities. When asked what gives rise to the preference for Canadian brick, he replied that it is mainly their superiority and uniformity of color. "We are able," he said, "to manufacture two hundred thousand bricks in which exactly the same shade of color will be maintained. The American manufacturers, owing I presume to the nature of the ma

terial at their disposal, do not appear to be able to succeed thus in securing uniformity of tone. Hence we find Americans who, in order to secure superior results, are willing to pay the duty on Canadian bricks."





ILLUSTRATIONS.

COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR PROPOSED NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AT VICTORIA, B. C.—MESSRS. DICK &

WICKSON, ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.

BANK OF HAMILTON, WINGHAM, ONT.—MR. D. B. DICK, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.





MONTREAL.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

Sir William Dawson, who for nearly forty years has discharged with distinguished ability the duties of President of McGill University, has retired. The weight of advancing years demanded that he should lay down the activities associated with the position. Sir William Dawson has commanded world-wide recognition as a scientist and educator, and has bad conferred upon him many marks of distinction by learned societies, including the presidency of both the British and American Associations for the Advancement of Science. His successor to the Presidency of McGill has riot yet been chosen.



There is a desire expressed by some of the aldermen that the city should discard the contract system and carry out municipal works by day labor under the supervision of the city surveyor and his assistants. By this means they hope to save the contractor's profits. In theory thc thing seems easy of accomplishment, but it has worked out differently in practice in more than one city where it has been tried. It opens the door to jobbery. and for some reason or other the work costs more than when done by contract. Workmen in the employ of the city apparently do not feel called upon to put forth their best efforts.



It is reported that a large hotel is to be erected at the corner of Peel and St. Catherine streets, on the site of Erskine church, and that Mr. Townsend, architect, of New York, has been employed to prepare the plans. Dr. Dugald Graham's name is mentioned being one of the leading projectors of the enterprise.



The formal opening of the new Board of Trade building has been postponed until September. The occasion promises to be one of much interest.



The Dominion Bridge Company has re-elected the following officers: Mr. James Ross, president; Mr. James P. Dawes, vice-president Messrs. R. B. Angus, Duncan Mcintyre, T. G. Holt, James Cooper and P. Donaldson, directors.



On the 13th or June there was sold at the Fraser Hall, a most interesting and valuable collection of antiquities and objects of art, the property of Mr. E. Collonna, architect, of this city.



About twenty-five models have been submitted in the competition for a memorial statue to the late Sir John A. Macdonald. These models have been open to inspection by the subscribers to the fund, prior to a choice being made by the Committee.



Owing to delay in completing the new additions, the formal opening of the art gallery will not take place until the autumn.





 WINNIPEG.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



Mr. Geo. Browne, architect, of this city, has designed a new building to be erected for the congregation of Westminster church at the corner of Notre Dame and Charlotte streets. Thc structure will cost about $25,000, and will be constructed of white brick with Selkirk stone trimmings. The seating capacity will be upwards of 900 The auditorium is 65 feet square, with inclined floor and seats arranged in semi-circular form. There will be towers at three corners of the building and an octagonal bay on Notre Dame street.



Tenders have been invited for the erection of a new church for the congregation or St. Paul's, at Regina, to cost $20,000.



Mr. Hugh McGowan, architect, this city, has designed and commenced the erection of a new school building at Gretna, Man.



The corner stone of a new Methodist church at Boissevain, was laid with appropriate ceremony June 19th.



Tenders have been received by the Minister of Public Works for the heating of the new Court House building.

The Salvation Army is preparing to erect a building to serve as headquarters in this city.



A large number of small residences, ranging in cost from $500 to $2,000 are being erected here this season.



The Mason Contractors Association and the Carpenters and Builders' Association, of this city, have recently amalgamated under the name of the Builders Association or the city of Winnipeg. The move is without doubt a good one.

It is estimated that the total expenditure on buildings in this city during the present year will exceed that of 1892 by three quarters of a million dollars,





LONDON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



In London this season there is an immense amount of building to be done, but so few good builders that they are busily employed, and tenders for new work are fully 30 per cent, higher than ordinarily. The result is already apparent, there are numerous prospective new residences which have already been dropped on account of the great cost, and others are sure to follow, especially if the fact of the change becomes generally known. I think it advisable to make these facts known in the hope that possibly some good brickworkers and carpenters in Toronto may be encouraged to figure on work here. in, as I am given to understand, building is not brisk in Toronto, there must he many contractors to whom the information would be beneficial. If building continues to he abandoned here for the reasons given above, contractors here will lose, and can afford to welcome outsiders. Recently two or three prominent firms here have given up business. so that there seems to be an unusually good opening for some one competent to manage a builder's business. The cause of giving up was death in both cases.

