<doctype type="text">	80THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	



steam or hot water more particularly hot water. The force which we use to crowd the fresh air into the room and drive the foul air out is due to the expansion of the fresh air by heat. Air expands one-four-hundred-and-ninety-first of its bulk for every degree it is heated above 32° F.

Thus it will be seen if we heat the air warmer than the surrounding air we have increased its bulk very nearly one-tenth. The greater the difference in temperature the greater the expansion, and, as a natural consequence, the more rapid the movement of the warmer air. On a moderate winter day the indirect radiator in a hot water job is rarely heated over 130" to 140° F., and as it is not possible for the air in passing through the stack to absorb more than from one-half to two-thirds of the heat, the temperature of the air flowing into the room under such conditions will rarely exceed 75° to 80° F. As the force with which the air comes into the room depends upon the difference in temperature of the air in the stack and the air in the room, it will be readily seen that the movement must be very sluggish. With the combination heater, the air coming in contact with the fire and smoke surfaces only, the temperature is raised much higher, with die result of a rapid flow of a large volume of air into the room in question.

Now, one more point, then I am through. In installing a combination job great care should be taken to place the heater as near the centre of the work as possible, locating all air registers as near the heater as practicable, so as to insure short connecting pipes in the basement. Always locate registers away from windows or cold walls, selecting, if possible, the warmest side of the room. Cold and warm air are always antagonistic, and you should give the warm air all the advantage possible if you wish for the best results.

Lastly, the combination system of air and water beating particularly is in the market to stay, and to you who are interested in residence or school heating the subject is worthy of your most careful consideration.



<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.

Fine bolted whiting is a good thing to add to graining color for oak when it is desired to thicken it without changing thc shade. Melted beeswax, or soap dissolved in hot water, and added to the color while warm may also be used.



According to a contemporary sheet brass may be cut chemically with success by the following method Make a strong solution of bichloride of mercury in alcohol; draw a line across the brass with a quill pen, where it is to be cut. Let it dry on, and with the same pen draw over this line with nitric acid. The brass can then be broken like glass ent with a diamond.



The art of producing mosaics is, according to an American contemporary, being extended to leather, the pieces being variously colored, some having metallic hues, others with a transparent glaze over another color. They are attached by glue to a hardwood ground, framed thc depth of the pieces, which are shaped as required.



The formation of efflorescence takes place in the following manner:

Bricks made from clay, having a high percentage of the sulphates of magnesia, soda or potash in their composition, and not sufficiently fired to fuse or amalgamate them with the silicates and oxides of iron, will readily dissolve the alkalis on becoming wet, and with the evaporation of the moisture a large quantity is carried to the surface and deposited in crystalline form.

<article title=" FIREPROOF Mortar " author="">

FIREPROOF Mortar.-- Mortar for resisting the action of fire, and proper to be employed in building slight brick piers as substitutes for, or instead of employing, iron columns, may be made of pozzolano mixed with freshground lime of chalk from the lower beds; and as real pozzolano is an imported substance and likely to be expensive, its place may be very well supplied by an artificial substance of similar character, produced by burning any marly clay that is fit for brickmaking to a gray clinker, and reducing such clinker to a grain of the size of gray sand. Three-fourths of this substance to one-fourth of fresh-ground lime, mixed dry in the first instance, and, when so mixed, rendered plastic by the addition of soft water, will yield a mortar capable of resisting fire for a long time, and water, if need be, as long as any bricks that can be set in it.



A plastered ceiling that is very loose and almost about to fall, may sometimes be saved by the following method: Form of two or three pieces of scantling, and ordinary laths, a frame long enough to cover the defective part. Hold this against the ceiling by means of two uprights and gently press back the loose plaster against the underside of the joists, supporting the lower portions of the uprights by means of wedges. Now take some ordinary wrought nails, and file slots into their beads so that they may be driven home by means of a screwdriver. Use a sharp screwdriver and press

each nail gently through the plaster into the joist, giving each a twist when it has entered the wood. If this is done carefully, the plaster will not be disturbed, but will be held perfectly when the framework is taken away. A little plaster of Paris, for filling up the holes will give a very good job. For safety the ceiling is best papered before being whitened.



COAL-TAR FOR WATERPROOFING. --The use of coal for waterproofing masonry is recommended by a French technical journal. For surfaces exposed to the air it is advised to apply from one to three coats boiling bot. Its durability is increased by adding a small proportion of India-rubber dissolved in benzine. If the color of the coating is objectionable, it may he dusted with plaster-of-Paris before drying. Where surfaces are to be covered with earth a single coating of tar made thick by blazing is preferable. A small quantity, two or three gallons, is brought to a boiling temperature and lit at the surface. It is allowed to blaze and kept constantly stirred at the same time until the volume is considerably reduced and it becomes pasty on cooling. The product is spread as rapidly as possible with a large flat brush, which is dipped often to prevent cooling. A single coal applied in this manner adheres firmly to even the smoothest surface.— Invention.

A recent invention, says the American Upholsterer; intended to supersede the heavier wood ceilings. is a light and handsome wood veneer. This consists of a thin layer of natural wood on a background of paper, which is placed upon the ceiling in about the same way that ordinary wall is laid— only to attain perfect results it is first necessary to coat the surface to bc employed with a thin layer of muslin. This ceiling when completed is, if anything. more artistic in appearance than those of heavy inlaid wood. The cost of treating a ceiling in this way is much less, and the great variety of woods and their easy attachment seems to give a wider latitude for beautiful effects. There is hardly any combination of color that cannot be formed out of the natural wood. The white bird's-eye maple, curly maple, white holly and pink bird's-eye maple form a combination that is beautiful in its light and chaste effect The union of the laurel burl, figured walnut and amaranth is most taking in appearance. The dark, rich colours of these woods blend into perfect harmony.

















Quite a demand for Canadian lumber is reported from St. Johns, Nfld., where large building operations are in progress.



The Consolidated Plate Glass Company of Canada. Limited, has been incorporated, with a capital stock of $250,000.



Mr. E. B. Jarvis, architect, Toronto, has invented and patented a system of heating and ventilating. The Toronto Radiator Mfg. Co. will manufacture the apparatus.

The Paterson Manufacturing Company, with chief place of business at Toronto, is being incorporated with a capital stock of $50,000, to manufacture building paper, roofing material, etc.



At one of St. George granite quarries the other day, says the Sun, a block was taken out 32 feet long, 18 feet wide and 15 feet thick. It is computed that this block of stone when loaded on a car will be worth $5,000. It contains about 250 tons of stone.

The Company which is being organized in Victoria. B. C., to manufacture Portland cement expect to find a profitable market in China and Japan. The cement manufactured in those countries will not it is said stand for any length of time under water, and half a million dollars worth of English cement is imported annually.



We undertstand that the Toronto Radiator Mfg. Co. are preparing a very large shipment for Tientsin, North China, and that they export very largely to Great Britain, France and Germany. They also ship to the United States. In certain parts their goods are preferred to those manufactured there. and the consumers are satisfied to pay the additional 45 10130uty and use thc goods manufactured in Canada, which speaks well for Canadian industry.



Messrs. W. R. Melville, E. P. Brimmer, W. H. Robertson and S. E. Manuel are the owners of 200 acres of land on Cortes and Rugged Islands, about 90 miles from Vancouver, B. C., which has been found to contain an unlimited supply of red granite of excellent quality. The quarry is situated on a good harbor, the depth of water making it possible for vessels of any toanage to approach close to shore. The stone will shortly be placed on the market.



At a meeting of the Consolidated Plate Glass Co., of Canada, Limited, held at Toronto on the 4th inst., the following gentlemen were elected directors: Frank J. Phillips, William Ferguson Edwin Hill, William G. Phillips and Joseph McCausland, of Toronto; William R. Hobbs and Thomas S. Hobbs, of London, Ont.; Alex. Ramsay and L. I. Boivin, of Montreal, and George Howe, of Ottawa. At a subsequent meeting of directors, Frank J. Phillips was elected president and William R. Hobbs and Alex. Ramsay, vice-presidents.

Carroll, Vivk and Company Toronto Credit Valley Brown Stone

 