	<doctype type="text">76	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER	July, 1893

<article title=" FUNCTIONS OF THE BUILDER " author="">

FUNCTIONS OF THE BUILDER.

THERE are apparently changes impending which may modify, if they do not transform, the office of the builder. On alt sides we find people who are eager to introduce new arrangements. The system by which Great Britain is covered with buildings that are sound. commodious, and economical is, in the opinion of amateurs, out of joint, and wants mending. Hence it is we find good-natured people are eager to benefit the world by substituting for our experience the undisciplined boldness of outsiders.

This spirit reveals itself not only in the dreams of imaginative gentlemen who would desire to see the architect leading a body of craftsmen, while in some way he shares in their toil. it is seen, too, in the desire to have architects whose diplomas are evidence that they have mastered all the mysteries of construction and are able to take our places. it inspires also the proposals of public bodies to dispense with builders. It gives point to the articles which the journals print whenever an accident occurs. The support which is given to stokes depends on the belief that we are in some way in the wrong It is a curious fart, as exemplifying this tendency of the present that the member who was charged with the introduction of the last Registration Bill in Parliament imagined it was intended to apply to builders as well as to architects

It is not in England alone that there is a wish to disturb arrangements which exist, because they are found to be in correspondence with the needs (if the public. I have been told that a few weeks ago in Paris the Chief Administrator of the Department of Public Works declared in public that it was wrong to have a division between architects, engineers, contractors, and workmen, and that all their duties could well lie fulfilled by one individual. In England we often hear similar propositions about rolling four single gentlemen into one, hut in France the State out of the taxes creates both architects and engineers. Such amalgamations as was suggested on that occasion is equivalent to saying that the Government have been acting wrongly, and that public funds are misapplied. Yet such is the courage of the advocates of change, they will incur any sort of risk if it helps to advance their hobby.

I am not concerned with a defense of the French system of executing works. But I would ask, what evidence is there that English builders are not performing their work most satisfactory? In spite of the extraordinary variations of our climate, how many buildings are east down Even among the defects of jerry-building want of stability is not included Indeed, some artists laurent the enduring powers of that class of structure I am not disposed to maintain that builders lie not fallible like the rest of humanity but I do say that there is no business in the country which taken as a whole is conducted more honesty than our own. Nor should it be forgotten that in many cases the temptations to the contrary arc very strong

The proposals to erect dwellings and buildings in London by the Comply Council without the intervention oh contractor may lie taken as an illustration of the lengths to which reformers or rather theorists are prepared to go. in an experiments of that kind everything works smoothly, for there is no risk. The defects in foundations or other natural obstacles need excite no alarm for the cost of dealing with them is provided for. It will not be necessary to be alarmed about extra works or grieve over the deduction of items which were expected to be profitable. There is no anxiety about the chance of loss or any other contingency of the kind. The men employed will always be in good humor, and those who supply materials will always be' in the most accommodating mood Building in fairyland could hardly be mote of a pastime than it will be under the Country Council in London But cue you imagine, gentlemen, that so happy-go-lucky a method can be economical?

who have to suffer mental distress every day on account of the responsibility which we have assumed and who occasionally have to bring all our courage to bear in order to lace our risks, know two well what the consequence will be. No doubt a very pleasant sight will be afforded when we find all who co-operate in a building working harmoniously together, hut like all spectacles which are novel it will be found that money must be liberally expended on the arrangements. It will be said by the advocates of similar schemes that on private works in many places the builder has been already superseded Drapers, co-operate stores, and providers of miscellaneous things are credited with having carried out important works very successfully at a fraction of the legitimate charges. All those cases have never been properly scrutinized. If, for example, a co-operative store is able to furnish gasfittings at one-fifth the price which experts had estimated, is it not plain that the profit amid loss account of the gaslighting department of the store was never properly made out? In all such eases a great number of departments have to be taken together and the loss in one of them us compensated by the gain in another. Then, again, when we hear that is draper has offered to do certain work in stone or mu far below cost price we may always expect to find that he is to be allowed to supply goods that are within his province. Fur what he loses in construction lie is able to refund himself by what hue gains in furnishing It would be easy to explain many other inconsistencies but I need not waste your time about them. The public may rest assured that in building works no matter what agency they may employ, they will not gain more than if they had trusted themselves to a respectable and established builder.

'We have no opportunities of performing such tricks of legerdemain lf by an oversight we under estimate the cost of work we have to bear the penalty. We have no means of finding compensation. We have no prospect of receiving payment for work which was not executed. In fact, I consider that if the advocates of revolutionary changes were aware of the liabilities of builders to incur loss, they would be somewhat less bold in bringing forward their schemes.

They are to be excused, however, for workmen who sometimes have been closely connected with us for marty years appear to have a notion that all contracts are profitable In no other way can I explain the tendency to strikes which has prevailed of late. Any cause seems to be sufficient to stop works. I will give the English workman the credit of being very honest. If he hail not assured himself that there was more than sufficient profit in every ease to meet his demand he would hesitate before hue created so much curt fusion. Of late years his demands have taken two forums—an increase of wages and a reduction of working. To discuss on what principles wages should be determined would take me too far on the present occasion. It is a vast subject and one which has many sides But I think I may say that the workmen of any district (Cardiff among others) would find in our association as reasonable advisers in their difficulties as they could select. The Council of the Association are bound to take a road view of the organization of which workmen form an important part, and they are nor likely to smother-value anything which would cause business to be stopped for a day if in an honorable way they could devise a remedy. I anti suite that I am only expressing your minds when I say we have the fullest sympathy with our workmen. This is seen by the endeavors which are made to keep them with us. We are all proud of having workmen who have continued with us since their apprenticeship, and I have no hesitation in saying incredulous as it may appear to skeptics, that one of the causes which lead so many of us



From the inaugural address at the meeting of the National Association of Master Builders of Great Britain by Mr. Robert Dennelt President.

into unprofitable contracts is the desire to retain an unbroken staff around us. As regards working hours the question must be judged front another point

of view, No doubt, gentlemen your experience has been the same as may own, which is that in into department of life, outside the Government service a man has not been able to advance himself who has been satisfied with working eight hours a day. All professional omen must undergo greater toil unless they wish to remain at a low' level. I am afraid our own business would hardly be profitable any day if we were satisfied with giving only eight hours attention to it. I see ito reason, in spite of all my regard for the working classes, why they should have a much easier life than our own, As a rule, they have not only to work fewer hours, but they are free from responsibilities and other harassing sorts of a ear and tear, which we must endure.

Some of you remember in your youth to have seen statements or tables which were prepared by Peter Nicholson, a-ho once upon a the was accepted as an authority. He called them " Constants of Labor," and they were intended to show how much lime was to be occupied with the most insignificant details of builders' work. I have never used Nicholson's Constants," nor unmet a builder who employed them in preparing a tender. But 1 have no hesitation in saying that the time he assumed as a basis for his calculations would not correspond with what is now required For all kinds of handwork more hours are indispensable than formerly. If the " Constants were now in use they would have to be altered every year.

Now, this is a subject which does riot concern us alone. The builder is in reality no more than an agent for the public and whatever affects hint must operate also of those who employ him. Strange to say this undoubted fact is not realized. The public would seem mu lie indifferent t when here are contests between workmen and builder They appear to consider that the disagreeable affair is entirely circumscribed to the pan parties who encounter one another. For instance, is there a member among all those I have the privilege of addressing who can recall one case where he was told that he might proceed with deliberation in the erection of building? ? The rule as we all know is to insist on the almost expedition We arc 

under penalties not to go beyond a determined day.

Now, if buildings have to be erected as hitherto i. e. without loss of time- is it not plain that with shorter hours and a diminution of the quantity of work produced in each of those hours, it a-ill be necessary to employ far more hands for which buildings owners will have to pay? By all means let the public become philanthropists We are quite willing to keep works open for only a few most every day, and to employ such a number of men that labor will need no exertion But inn that case  they must not grumble at tine amount of our tenders, nor go about bewailing the degradation of  builders

'There are, perhaps very low of the public who are not more or less me. responsible for the condition of affairs which is supposed to make a reform of the building trade a necessity They may not argue like the French official, the representative of the Minister of Public Works to whom I referred at beginning He would lead the public to imagine that it is possible for a workman, under a proper system of administration to change places with an architect, engineer. or contractor . But by tolerating experiments like those of the London County Council by encouraging dealers in cotton and soft goods, pins and needles to go in for masonry ironwork and sanitation and by their unconcern during strikes and trade disputes they are helping to make workmen discounted For my part I believe that the a-oral sort of grievances to endure are those which are vague, and I am sure building workmen at the present lime would suffer less if they defined what they want, and endeavored to discover how it could he realized.

As regards our trade. I suppose there ties-er was a time when there a-etc better facilities and more competence for executing work than there are at present I an advocate of the promotion of technical education, but I must any that I still believe the best school for young builders is to hue found in builders' workshops. No branch among all the industries of England has been put to severer tests than ours Styles of architecture change, and whatever is in fashion we are able to realize it with all the spirit of our predecessors. Greek, Gothic, Roman or Dutch buildings are alike to us. New requirements demand novel arrangements of construction, which are carried out as if they system an every inlay affair with us. In that way the history of any great building works become a sort of key to the industrialism as well as the taste of the age.

The public may not be the to appreciate all that we do at a tight value 'They cannot tell how much it costs to organize a system which will answer promptly and accurately-cry sort of demand that can be made upon it. Butt it is evident that at least one school of architect is able to realize how an ordinary builders workshop cain become an auxiliary In the architects office or the school of art. Some of you gentlemen may have seen the remarkable collection of essays entitled ' Architecture A Profession or an Art ?" In the pages we find many things which reveal an altered recognition of the builders importance Thus it is stated ' The contractor, the purveyor of labor, is not so far removed from actual building work as we architects, for he has, at all events, to know the nature and quality of materials and he has generally passed through the workshop and learnt one or more trades, and made himself a handicraftsmen It would be an excellent thing if everyone who aspired to he an architect did the same, and learnt to do work with his hands as well as with his head" The example of the lame Sir Gilbert Scott (a name that can never be mentioned by a builder and especially myself without reverence) might be called as suggesting the value of some experience in us builders workshop when he had completed his articles in a London architect's office he went direct to the offices of Messrs. Peto & Grisswell to whom he gave his services in return for having the run of their workshop anti their London works, There hue acquired that knowledge which was of such advantage to him during a career which w-as marked by masterpiece





Dredging tinder ice with a steam shovel was a contractor's trick inn excavating for some stone piers at Winnipeg, Main, The Red rim en at this point is 468 feet wide. The work was begun in February, according to the Rail-  way Age. the Shovel used being a very powerful machine manufactured by the Vulcan Iron Works Company, of Toledo, 0. The work was done by W. G. Reid, a Montreal contractor of large experience in bridge work. An ordinary track was first laid to within about 30 feet of a hole (22 x6o feet) cut tin the ice, which was about 2 1/2 feet thick, over the proposed location of the first pier, from which point heavier tines, 8,,x8" x10", laid 2 feet apart were used. Au the immediate edge of the hole were placed three long ties 10 inches in diameter and 50 feet long, and over this track the shovel was worked to within 6 inches of the edge of the hole, where it was securely anchored with blocks and chains After a distance of about 10 fret in length along the full width of the hole bud been excavated a bent 8x8 feet and 13 feet 6 inches in height made of 10-inch. timbers as stunk to the level of the ice. and cross-timbers 50 feet mu length laid down, thus distributing the weight equally upon the ice and tine bent. 'Ibis method was continued until the whole excavation necessary for each pier was completed The material excavated was discharged from tine bucket upon sleds and hauled away.

