	<doctype type="text">July, 1893	THE  CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	77

<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE " author="">

 CORRESPONDENCE	

Letters are invited for this department on subjects related to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondence



<article title=" THE PLUMBER'S PROFITS " author="">

THE PLUMBER'S PROFITS.

Editor CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER.

SIR,—While coinciding with the remarks appearing in your June issue anent the necessity of the plumber satisfying himself that his client is not made to pay for time which has been loitered away by journeymen and apprentices, I wish to call attention to the fact that the plumbers' profits are by no means what they are frequently pictured to he. Competition is not less keen in the plumbing business than in other branches of the building trades, nor have the effects of this competition been less in the direction of reducing profits. There is this difference, however, as compared with some of the other trades, that plumbing material is of a very expensive character and the plumbing work is expensive in consequence. A glance over the list of plumbers in Toronto to-day fails to show more than one or two who have succeeded in accumulating even a competency out of the profits of their business. This fact should in itself suffice to refute the charge that the plumbers asks or receives exorbitant prices for his work. I hesitate not to say that there is probably no class of business men in the community who get smaller returns from their business than do the plumbers.

Yours truly,

Justice 

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The supplemental examinations for 1893 will be held on September 27th and 28th.

* *

*

The Association library has received from the Architectural Club a gift of Liibkes History of Art. The Architectural Club, in winding up its affairs, found a surplus on hand, which it expended in this way.















A CRITICISM.

THE British Architect prints the following criticism of the illustration of a carved stone mantel which appeared in a recent number of this journal In the CANADIAN ARCHITECT for May there appears an illustration of a carved stone mantel for a private residence in Toronto, which shows a grotesque face looking out from the centre of a mass of foliage ornament. The face, which has strongly marked features, is on the broad grin, of that type associated with the goblins of the nightmares of one's childhood. The head is covered with a flowing mass of rough tangled locks, and round the neck is a sort of collar, from each side of which stretch out the goblin's wings. We cannot say we appreciate this kind of thing inside the home, though it may be all very well in gargoyles outside the building. As it is shown in this mantelpiece it is, however, decidedly out of place as an ornamental feature, and we can well imagine the time when to a sensitive child such an apparition would call up all sorts of horrible imaginings. But perhaps the lady for whom it has been executed, married though she be, has no children or, if she has, expects them to be quite as strong-minded as herself in respect to grinning grotesques and hobgoblins.

<article title=" CONTRAST OF COLORS IN NATURE " author="">



CONTRAST OF COLORS IN NATURE.

Nature is very sparing of showy contrasts of warm and cold colors, says Mr. W. Barnes in a recent issue of the Architect. Red and blue are very rare, and of yellow and blue the cases are but few, and black and blue are found in lepidoptera more often than white and blue are seen in our flora or fauna. It is not uncommon for one of two strong colors to be overcast with a tingle of its fellow, or for both o)f them to be reconciled by a common touch of black or of some third color or for one of them to) be lightened by a (lash of white, while the other is lowered by as much black anti so red off-hued with black—russet and green upbrightened with white—often meet in the autumn in dead and dying patches of fatling leaves. It may be shown, I believe, by the refraction's of light in crystallized gypsum that brown is the complementary color to lavender-grey; and how true to) herself is Nature, we may go forth and see in the fall of the year; in the dead and curled leaves of the mugwort, or meadow sweet ; which are beautiful even in their (heath, with one side brown and the other the brown-matching grey; and if brambles be cut in the leaf-greeny season, their two surfaces soon wither into the harmony of grey and brown. And what use are we to make of these hues of nature? They are warrants for a grey mantle under locks of brown hair, or a brown bonnet or trimmings, or a grey room wall with brown furniture ; and if on a hot summer's day, I see the dark leaf shades playing on the grey bark of a young beech, I can boldly lay darkish leaf shades on a wall of the beech hark's hue ; or if, after the winter

rains, I find a barkless pole in railings, tinted with the palest blue-grey, and on breaking off a splinter of it I find its inner wood of its true color of pale brown yellow, why should into take the inner tint for my will and the outer one for the skirting ? Or, if I pick tip a piece of lichen of dull green on one side and dull grey on the other, why should I not bind my book in one color and lay on it a lettering piece of the other? Nature is the best school of art, and (If schools of art among men, those are the best that are Nature's best interpreters.



<article title=" THE CANADIAN CONTRACTOR'S HAND-BOOK " author="">

THE CANADIAN CONTRACTOR'S HAND-BOOK.

THE second edition of this book which has recently left the press, has already had quite an extensive sale. We append a few opinions of the book as expressed by some of the leading paper's



The Monetary Times: 'this is a compendium of useful information for persons engaged 110 works of construction, containing upwards of 150 pages. That it has been found of service is proved by the fact that the present is the second edition First, and appropriately appears the text of the Mechanics' Lien Act of 1877 and that of 1890 for simplifying procedure also the consolidated Act respecting workmen's compensation and Toronto and Montreal building by—laws. Next a glossary of terms used in building notes on estimating- which seem to us very practical and valuable- and various tables having relation to the strength of materials and the weight of substances A feature which to employers is worth the whole price of the book is the table giving the amount of a workman's w wages for any number of hours, from 2 to 120 at rates per hour ranging from 15 cents to 45 Cents Them there are '' Hints" for painters and paperhangers Points" for plumbers, &c , &c. Send to Charles H. Mortimer publisher, Confederation Lite Building. Toronto, for a copy, price $0.50 to subscribers of the Canadian Architect AND BUILDER,

The Toronto Mail.' "The Canadian Contractor's Fland-Book." by Chas. H. Mortimer (Toronto: Canadian Architect and Builder Press). This little book which is a competition of useful information for persons engaged on works rib constructions is not to be estimated by its size, its value being greater than the number of cubic inches it occupies In the pocket of the builder the bricksetter. the stonemason the jointure, and many other persons it will be found frequently useful Besides a copy of the Mechanics' Lien Act, the Compensation to Workmen Act, and various bylaws relating to the building trade, it contains numerous useful tables and receipes, all of which have been carefully selected, and are applicable to daily use.





PUBLICATIONS.

We have been favored by the Secretary with a copy of the calendar of the Architectural Association of London. It comprises 200 pages of useful data relating to the Association including the constitution and by-laws, form of application for membership, syllabus of meetings curriculum reports list of members, etc.

We extend our congratulations to our esteemed Antipodean contemporary, the Australasian Builder and Contractors' News which has lately celebrated its sixth anniversary. It is one of the most interesting of the many architectural journals which come regularly to our table, and is deserving of the largest measure of encouragement and support from those in behalf of whose interests it speaks.

are informed that the Toronto Radiator Mfg. Co. have now in the printers hands a catalogue which gives promise of being the most elaborate and expensive production in this line that has been executed in Toronto for a number of years. 'the volume is to contain some 200 steel plate views of Canada's best buildings in addition to the usual illustrations of the Safford patent radiators and a carefully prepared treatise on Hot Water and Steam heating.



The July Cosmopolitan will mark the most radical step ever taken it periodical literature. With that issue the magazine, unchanged in form, in fact, one of the best numbers of the cosmopolitan ever issued, will be Pitt on sale at twelve and one-hall cents per copy —$1.50 a year The cutting in half of a price already deemed low for an illustrated magazine is the result of an intention long since formed, to give to the public an illustrated monthly of the very highest class at such a price as must bring it within the reach of all persons of intellectual tastes, however limited their income.





PERSONAL.

Peter Belanger, contractor, Ottawa, is dead.

B.	Mooney & Sons, builders St. John, N. B., have dissolved.

The death is announced of Mr. Edward McCoskric, architect, Victoria,

B.	C,

Mr. W. H. Carrick, manager of the Gurney Foundry Co., Toronto is visiting the World's Fair.



We regret to learn of the accidental death of Mr. N. D. McDonald, a well known plumber of Winnipeg. While getting off an electric street ear lie was struck by a passing bicycle, receiving injuries which shortly after caused his death. Among some of the important contracts carried out by Mr. McDonald was the plumbing in the Hotel Leland, the Manitoba College. the Grain Exchange and the Barracks.





RUSKIN ON BRICKMAKING.

OUR fields of good clay were never given to us to be made into oblong morsels of cute size. They were given us that we might play with them that men who could not handle a chisel might knead out some expression of human thought In the architecture of the clay districts of Italy, every possible adaptation of the material is found exemplified from the coarsest and most brittle brick used it the mass of structure to brick for arches and plinths east in the most perfect curves, and of almost every size strength, and hardness; and molded brick wrought into flower work, and tracery as fine us raised patterns upon china. And just as many of the finest works of the Italian sculptors were executed in porcelain, many of the best thoughts of their architects were expressed in brick, or in the softer material of terra cotta ; and if this were so in Italy where there is not one city from whose towers we may not descry the blue outlines of the Alps or Appenines, everlasting quarries of granite and marble how much more ought it to be so among the fields of England?





Jean Marie and Louis T. Atibin have been registered partners to carry on business as builders at Montreal tinder the style of Aubin & Frere

