	<doctype type="text">90	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	August, 1893

<article title=" LIFTING UP A MASSIVE BUSINESS BLOCK " author="">

LIFTING UP A MASSIVE BUSINESS BLOCK.

THE World's Fair is full of wonderful sights, but it contains nothing ,so amazing, so thrilling to an observer, or more interesting to the builder, than the scene on Monroe street, Chicago, where a massive stone and brick business block is being raised up bodily a distance of fourteen feet for the purpose of interposing an additional story. The building measures 50 x io6 feet, is six stories in height. The thickness of the walls was inadequate to support an additional story above, and the only alternative was to interpose one story at the ground level, the foundation being sufficient to carry one additional story.

The weight of this building above and including the main floor was found to be 11,440,000 pounds or 5,720 tons, in round numbers twenty-seven pounds to the cubic foot. There are used in the raising of this building 1,800 three-inch jack screws. To operate these screws 132 laborers are required, each one having charge of from eight to twelve screws. At a given signal on a shrill whistle each man, with an iron bar four feet long, gives each screw a one-quarter turn. The pitch of the screws being five-eighths of an inch, each one-quarter turn raises the building three-sixteenths of an inch, and it is found that thc immense load of 5,720 tons can be raised three inches an hour. When the screws have been turned front their blocks twelve inches, new support is required which is secured by a blocking of 6x6 inch timber. The screws, which are twenty-four inches long, arc then slackened, the load placed upon the new blocking and the screws set for another turn. At no time is there more than one of the group of twelve screws without a load.

Experience has proved to these self-taught screw engineers that the limit of weight at any time given to one screw should not exceed five tons, although it is known that a strong man with a four foot lever can raise three times this amount. An experiment was once tried as to the breaking strength of one of these screws and it was found that the flange which supports the screw, broke at the extraordinary weight of fifty-four tons. The weight of the building being 5,720 tons and there being 1,800 screws, the proportion of the weight upon each screw is three tons, so that the factor of safety in this piece of work is about eighteen. During the raising of this building careful records are taken and frequent measurements are made to ascertain whether or not the building is raised perpendicularly from the point from which it started. Should any laborer neglect to give the proper turn to the twelve screws tinder his charge, the result is at once shown by these measurements. This system also insures the exact vertical raising of the building, assuming, of course, that it starts from a level surface. As soon as the building is raised to the intended height— 14 feet and 8 inches-the work of building tip with steel columns and girders and masonry will be commenced and the building lowered onto its new supports; the interior will then be completed as in an ordinary work.—- Stone.



<article title=" TIN ROOFS " author="">

TIN ROOFS.

THOSE who are interested in the subject of free trade versus protection duties will find an interesting problem for solution in tin plate and its application for roofing purposes, writes Arthur Seymour Jennings in the P/umber and Decorator. Probably one-half of all the roofs in the United States of America are covered with tin plate. Most of it is made in Wales, is exported into America, and a duty is exacted. The subject of tin plate has been discussed at length in the papers, especially in connection with the notorious McKinley tariff; and buckets full of ink have been wasted in trying to arrive at a clear understanding as to whether the American Government are best serving the people in taxing an import so widely used, considering that the material is not made at all in the States, or at least to any extent. Our readers may be familiar with the fact that there have been one or two attempts to start tin plate factories in the States by the aid of workmen obtained from England.

But it is not to enter into a question of tariff that this article is written, but rather to call attention to the somewhat remarkable fact that tin plate, although made at home, is not used at home for roofing purposes. That it forms a very economical roof-covering, the first cost of which is low, and the durability of which is considerable, will readily be conceded by those who have had an opportunity of examining it in use. Why then should it not be used in England? Of course, it can only be applied to roofs that are comparatively flat, but then we have very many flat roofs that are covered with zinc, sheet lead, or copper.

At first thought a number of objections to the use of tin plate will suggest themselves. It may be said that it would not stand the climate, that flat roofs are objectionable in any case, and that even zinc roofs are more frequently in bad order than they are in good. In answer, we may point out that the climate of the United States is much more severe than that of England. In few localities east of the Rocky Mountains is the temperature less than too degs. sometimes in summer, or more than several degrees below zero sometimes during the winter. Broadly speaking, it may be said that anything that will stand the climate of America will prove durable in England. This is leaving out certain limestone and other materials that are likely to be injuriously affected by the action of sulfuric acid contained in the air when large quantities of soft coal are burnt, such as is the case in English cities.

Flat roofs are, of course, objectionable, but they are nevertheless a necessity, and if they are to be covered the main object is to render them permanently watertight at the lowest possible cost. The writer claims that this can best be done by the use of tin plate.

As to the durability of tin roofs. When properly laid and painted periodically, they last certainly as long as zinc, in fact, it is claimed that, if the painting is done every second year, they will last indefinitely. The tin is laid without rolls, and usually without laps, the joints being simply soldered together. The usual flashing to the wall are provided, but that is all.

The durability of a tin roof depends largely upon the paint. In the best roofs the under surface of the tin is painted with a single coat and the upper surfaces with three coats. Before The paint is applied any resin adhering is scraped off, and then the whole of the surface is washed clean with benzine to make it entirely free from grease. Some roofers allow the tin to become rusty before applying the paint, on the theory that this will afford a better hold. This practice is, however, entirely objectionable, because the rust once started continues. The cost of painting is not large as a cheap paint is used, made principally of oxide of iron or metallic brown. The application of it does not require the employment of particularly skilled labor.

Considered altogether, would appear that the meters of tin roofs should claim more attention from house owners and architects than they receive at present.



<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.

The finest kind of iron tubes ever used to convey gas, steam or water, were seamless drawn steel and brass tubes of almost any diameter and thickness.

HARD AND Inattackable CEMENT—' Kosmos" gives the following formula for the composition of a cement which sets in four or five days, when ii becomes so hard as to scratch iron, serving to cover terraces, line fountain basins, and connect blocks of stone. Grind 10 a fine powder ninety-three Paris of crushed brick or well-burnt clay with seven parts of litirarge, and mix the powder with sufficient linseed oil to give the consistence of mortar. Before applying the cement, the Paris to be covered must be damped with a wet sporage and if any cracks should show themselves, they must bc stopped rip with cement



Preservation or Timber FROM DAMP—The following preparation is recommended by the Genie Civil for preserving timber from the ill effects and deterioration due to damp, while at the same time giving it a clean and pleasing appearance: Sulfur 500 parts, resin 375 Paris, and fish oil seventy-fire parts are melted together and, when they are completely dissolved, a small quantity of red or yellow odor or iron oxide, ground in linseed oil, is added for coloring, the whole being stirred vigorously 10 ensure a thorough mixture. Two coats of this paint in a boiling state are laid on, the first being allowed to (try thoroughly before the second is applied. It is said that timber thus treated will resist steam and fog as well as damp



How TO DRILL Glass.- -A writer in the Scientific American describes how to drill a hole in glass: Take a small common three-cornered saw file arid break off an inch of time end of ii. Then take to a grim stone and grind a blunt point on ii, being careful not to hurt the temper. Leave mire file in the handle and bore just like you would with an awl, The point of the file should not be longer than the file, is thick. Use turpentine as a lubricant, rind keep the culling edges on points of the file sharp with an oil stone. I have bored holes two inches deep in a short time by band in glass by this method. In boring a plate 1 have found it best to home from both sides, using very light pressure toward the last always laying the plate solid on a paper bound book.



THE Holding Power or Nails- Relating to tests as to the relative holding power of emit amid wire nails, we have, says the Iron Age, the following communication from a correspondent in India, who alludes 10 the effect of time on the holding power of wire nails In regard to the tests to be made as to the holding power of emit and wire nails, I was to say that to make the tests of any value or significance, the work after being nailed should be allowed to stand for a week or two and the nail their drawn, it has been my experience that eases nailed with some nails are easier to open with a nail puller than the some cases in which steel nails have be-air used. The cut nail after starting comes out easy, whereas inline wire nail holds its full length. Carpenters also say that in taking off shingle roofs that have been nailed with wire nails the shingles break and the nails all remain in time sheeting.



Disposition or CONCRETE.—When concrete is used to obviate the yieldingness of mire soil to pressure, expanse or extant of base is required to answer the arid, and to secure this effect, says a the Builders Reporter, the concrete being widely spread, should be thick or deep only with reference to its own power of transmitting to the ground the weight of tire wall to be built upon it, without breaking across or being crushed. But when concrete is used as a substitute for a wall in carrying a wall down to a low level, it is in fact a wall wide only in proportion to its comparative weakness in the absence of manipulated bond in its construction and incased by the strong soil within which it is placed. Whether the proper object be the attainment of a sufficiently expanded base upon a weak soil, or of tire sufficient depth below ground in a strong soil, it may be, to exclude meteoric influences, the erroneous notion is that a foundation is rendered strong in the rise of concrete dry depth rather than by extent of base, and in consequence of this notion heavy buildings are sometimes jeopardized by the friable concrete foundation being placed on its edge instead of being laid flat to cover the breadth of soil necessary to withstand the weight of the superstructure. Concrete, indeed, is am all mimes more safely to be regarded as a substance to be placed as a layer than as a substance to be set up as a wall, fur although with good materials careful manipulation and patience, excellent erections as walls may be made of concrete, as erections in tire same form may be made of tempered clay, neither concrete nor tempered day is to be regarded as a proper substance with which to form the lofty walls of buildings in towns,





Messrs. P. G. Waters & Son of Hull, Qua., have just completed tire construction, for the Public Works Department at Ottawa, of what is said no be tire largest lifting dredge in America. Its total length is 152 feet width, 30 1/2 feet height, 14 feet, the well being 91 feet 9 inches long and 6 feet wide. The machine is capable of dredging to a depth of 50 feet. It will cost in the neighborhood of $70,000.

