	<doctype type="text">86	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	August 1893



Questions AND ANSWERS ______

[Readers are invited to ask through this department for any information which they may require on lines consistent with the objects of the paper. Every effort will be made to furnish satisfactory answers t all such inquiries. Readers are requested to supply information which would assist us in our replies. The names and addresses of correspondents must accompany their communications, but not necessarily for publication. ]





Wilson Bros., Collingwood, Ont., ask: What is the correct weight of 1000 feet t)f inch lumber, maple and pine, dressed and undressed?

ANS.—The weight of undressed inch maple lumber is 4 1/2 lbs. to the foot, and when dressed, 3 1/2 lbs. to the foot.



"Architect" Montreal writes :—In the Province of Quebec, a considerable burden of ice accumulates on the roofs of buildings, and this must be taken into account by the architect in designing roofs. I have not been able to obtain any very definite information as to the weight of ice which would assist me in making my calculations, and would feel obliged if you could enlighten me on the subject.

ANS.—The weight of a cubic foot of ice is about 57 lbs.



<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



THE semi -annual examinations for matriculation and registration of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects were held of the 27th and 28th of July. Six candidates presented themselves for examination, of whom the following four were successful: M. Helbronner P. Sicotte, Frank Peden and J. A. Deschamps. The examiners were Messrs. A. T. Taylor, J. Haynes and A. C. Hutchison, and the examinations comprised arithmetic, menstruation, algebra, geometry and free hand and linear drawing. There were no candidates for the final examination.

The next annual meeting of the Association will be held in the city of Quebec on the 28th of September. Arrangements are not yet completed as to the proceedings, but the secretary is now in communication with the members at Quebec regarding this.



<article title=" IN FAVOUR OF COMPETITIONS " author="">

IN FAVOUR OF COMPETITIONS.*



From my point of view, it is a mistake to suppose that the profession can dispense with healthy, stimulating competitions. A man never knows what is really in him until he has measured himself with his fellows in real honest work of this kind. Consider what a large field for effort is presented to our younger men at the outset of their career, when youth, with its enthusiasm and capacity for work is so strong. With many, the commissions which they have in hand fail to folly occupy their time. Does not the opportunity thus afforded, through the medium of competitions, and which I think is confined to our profession, create, if grasped, a lasting habit of steady, continuous application and activity, a prelude to the time when hands and head will be fully occupied on more certain work.

Let me remind you of the endless opportunities which cross our path through the medium of competitive problems, for the study and investigation of the many kinds of architectural structures the architect of to-day is called upon to design. Frequently are we compelled before making a new venture to seek, and then to thoroughly satiate ourselves with the ideas and treatment we find in the best and most successful work of perusal of illustrations, as well as by a personal inspection of their structures. Can anyone, on reflection, fail to see the helpful and lasting influences that must accrue from such a probation, even if no other advantage be the immediate outcome of the effort? How can we achieve success, if we learn no lesson from our failures? The knowledge and gm-asp of the requirements of any structure thus acquired, as well as the familiarizing of one's self with the mind and method of some eminent specialist, probably the " facile princeps" in the particular class of work attempted undoubtedly will be a clear gain to the earnest competitor, and from my own short experience I can affirm the result will be a joyous one, and will, in the near future, bear succulent fruit. Is not the trend of some of our younger men, who look askance at competitive work, to drift into that self satisfied and crystallized state (so aptly described by Sir Joshua), from which their work ultimately becomes reduced from mere architectural barrenness, to the poorest of all imitations—having to repeat what they have before often repeated.

We may love and reverence the past as archaeologists, but, as architects, let us not forget that archaeology is the bone of living progressive Architecture, and if our art is ever to evoke popular enthusiasm it must do so by embodying the thoughts, the aspirations, and the genius of the living people for whom we build.

There is one Inure thought so intimately connected with the whole question, viewed from the professional side, that I think it ought not to be passed over without comment, however brief. It is the deplorable preponderance of misdirected effort competitive work produces. One is confronted in almost every competition with the melancholy sight of many very meritorious architectural productions, possessing picturesqueness of grouping, excellent proportions, combined with artistic and well-designed detail, yet having all chance of their success nullified

 From a Paper read before the Manchester Society of Architects.

by the utter unsuitability of the design, and which is frequently mated to an indifferent and ill-considered plan. These artistic and impractical productions are greeted with time admiration both of the profession and the general public, but, alas! command nothing more substantial. Those who allow their prolific pencil to have the upper hand—resulting not infrequently in relegating to quite a secondary consideration the actual needs and inexorable stipulations of" Competitive Instructions" given for their adherence, and who prefer to follow time bent of their own sweet will and pleasure—are only amusing themselves. It is misapplied energy, and any chance of probability there is of their clever but impracticable design being chosen, becomes merely a "vision of their own romance."

With regard to the etiquette aspect of competitions, there is still floating about, even among many practicing architects, who on other matters are not without intelligence and discernment that strange notion that to be engaged on competition work is somehow derogatory from a professional point of view. These men (who ought to know better) carelessly deprecate in very doubtful taste the praiseworthy efforts made by their more enthusiastic and energetic fellows, through this medium presented to them. I feel very confident, indeed, that those who look with lukewarmness, if not with absolute hostility, on the many opportunities thus open for the obscure professional man, probably, as Gray has it, "A youth to fortune and to fame unknown," to further his advancement and to ultimately achieve success, have really never been reasoned into the position and attitude they take.

In the first place, by this method, a strong belief and advocacy in the policy t)f universal "Free Trade" is shown, the soundness of which, I venture to affirm, no one will be prepared to question, and thus is secured by the market the privilege of purchasing in the open market. Liberty also is afforded for any qualified practitioner to dispose of his wares (I. e., the product of his brains and skill), wherever that kind of merchandise is in requisition, and thus a wide field of additional opportunity and usefulness is opened out to us, and which may largely conduce to the greater prosperity of our profession. Again, the competitive system is largely instrumental in bringing about an entire immunity from those petty jealousies which we all deplore, but which are frequently experienced in many provincial towns, where several practitioners are about equal in status, professionally and socially. If competitions be framed and conducted on strictly equitable lines (which is of paramount importance, and to which I shall shortly refer), then the spirit of emulation being stirred, each competing architect is dependent entirely on the merit of his effort, and not on the number and the influence of his friends; then it follows that the discreditable and unprofessional touting, which is greatly to be deprecated, but which, alas! is only too frequently resorted to, at once ceases, and a more honorable and equitable state of things is adduced.

There is one other advantage I should like to point out that the public obtain through their encouragement and adoption of competitive work. It is the benefit of having any contemplated architectural project attacked by a number of distinct minds and the results submitted for their inspection and choice. Frequently one's attention is arrested, whilst inspecting competitive designs, by some that exhibit a freshness of competition, an originality, and a boldness that doubtless has been drawn out by their authors zeal to excel, and which, I venture to state, would not be obtained through any other agency. No more being attempted than is done, but a faithful performance of what is undertaken to be performed.

Many of us will recall with pain the heartburning and strong sense of indignation we have been occasionally subjected to by a flagrant deviation from rectitude and fair dealing on the part t)f the promoters in some competition, into which we have been cajoled to enter the lists. The indifference displayed by such unscrupulous people to the inexhaustible patience, time, and labor that architects have fruitlessly given, is so inconceivably deplorable that it will hardly bear discussion. The question as to how this particular evil is to be remedied forms part of a larger question affecting the whole subject. But are we not all "masters of our fates "? Does not the blame for such a state of things chiefly rest with ourselves, and have we not the remedy mainly in our own hands? It is invariably the case that in these "questionable" competitions, neither are the "instructions, drawn up" on lines suggested by the Institute, or by some practitioner (a man of repute), nor is any mention made in same as to the promoter's intention to call in a professional man to advise them in arriving at a decision. With these very ominous omissions clearly before us, it is our duty to our profession, as well as to ourselves, to leave all projects framed such doubtful lines severely alone, and I for one shall gladly welcome the day when every practicing architect shall consider it. his duty as well as his privilege to become a zealous and enthusiastic supporter of the Royal Institute, thus further to strengthen its hands by which alone it can successfully cope with some of ,the disabilities we still have with us.





An action has been entered by the management of the Dominion Bank with the object of preventing the Baldwin Estate from building upon a right area on the west side of the bank building on King street, Toronto It is claimed that the lease of the land on which the ban's stands covers also the area.

