<doctype type="text">August, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER	89



PERSONAL.

Mr. Chas. A. Bradshaw, a well known Toronto builder died on August 5th, age 54 years.

Mr. J. A. Ellis, architect, of Toronto Junction, has lately returned from a visit to the United States.

Mr. Thomas Soarr, a well-known and respected builder of the city of Toronto, died on July 14th.



Mr. Ernest Wilby, who has spent the last two years in thc study of architecture in England, has returned to Toronto.



Mr. J. W. Gray, architect, of Toronto, was severely injured a fortnight ago by being thrown from a carriage at Brantford.



Mr. John Wilcox, builder, who had been a resident of Toronto for half a century, died at his residence in that city a couple of weeks ago.

Mr. Fuller, Chief of the Department of Architecture at the Dominion Capital, is enjoying with his family a period of relaxation in the lake district near Peterboro', Ont.



Col. Charles G. Otis, of the Otis Bros. Co., manufacturers of elevators, died at his residence in Brooklyn, on the 7th inst., age 62 years. Col. Otis had been in feeble health for a year or two past.



Mr. Richard M. Hunt, of New York, received from the bands of the President of the Royal Institute of British Architects, on June 19th, the Victoria Royal Gold Medal awarded him by the institute some months ago.







 

 



<article title=" EFFECTIVENESS OF HEATING APPARATUS " author="">

EFFECTIVENESS OF HEATING APPARATUS.

THAT there is a wide difference, as pointed out by the Building Register in the effectiveness both of hot-water heating and steam-heating apparatus is a fact known to all well-informed men engaged in the heating trade, but in many instances this difference is accounted for by referring it to anything but the proper cause—namely, defects in the system of piping between the steam boiler or water heater and the radiators. The boiler may be good, the radiators may be the best in the market, yet the result is unsatisfactory. In most such cases it will be found that not enough study and care have been given to arrangement of pipes and radiator connections, to their proper sizes with reference to the surface they are to supply, to their pitch, to the supply in steam-heating pipes of proper relief pipes, to avoidance of traps in pipes, to provisions for expansion under the action of heat, and so on to the end of the chapter. These remarks apply to both large and small installations. Some of these defects are not always chargeable to the contractor who puts in the apparatus. Many buildings, large and small, can be found wherein, when first erected, the heating apparatus worked excellently, but in a year or two began to snap and pound vigorously, while its lack of vigor in heating some parts of the building became uncomfortably apparent to complaining occupants. What has happened during the interval between satisfactory testing anti the failure to heat successfully is that the building has settled unequally, thus neutralizing, and in many cases often reversing, the inclination given by the fitter of the pipes and canting radiators so that their outflow connections are higher than their inlets. Examine the boiler you will find there nothing to prevent efficiency. Radiators and valves, water-feeding and draft-regulating appliances may be all in first rate working order. The fault is that the piping has been disarranged because the building has settled, and settled unequally.



<article title=" DIRECT-INDIRECT RADIATORS " author="">

DIRECT-INDIRECT RADIATORS.

OUR German exchanges advertise something which seems to us, says the American Architect, to be worth the attention of architects and designers here, in the shape of direct-indirect radiators, formed, not of vertical tubes or castings, as is usual with us, but of horizontal coils. The idea is not new. We have ourselves employed the same arrangement, and have seen it used by others, but the fact that a manufacturing house finds it worth while to make and send out such coils in large quantities suggests the probability that, with a little study, coil radiators might be made with castings put together with bolts as vertical radiators now are, which would heat better, particularly for direct-indirect systems, anti be more ornamental It must be confessed that, so far, no beautiful objects in the shape of vertical radiators have made their appearance in the market. We do not say that they cannot be made, on the contrary, it is possible that a delicate colonnade design might be successfully adapted to such radiators ; but the surface-ornamentation hitherto employed has only increased the desire of architects to conceal appliances of the sort as much as possible. With coils, it seems to us that much more might be done. In the German examples, the coil is a flattened spiral, the fresh air introduced from out of doors being brought up through the middle. This is a good shape for circulation, as well as for heating. It is well known that horizontal coils heat much more air, for a given surface, than vertical tubes, and it would be easy, in a cast radiator on this system, to arm the hollow interior of the coils with pins, which must increase their efficiency.





A new hospital building has recently been completed in Owen Sound from the plans of Mr. J. Forster, architect, of that town. Accommodation has been provided for seventy patients and the necessary staff of attendants. The building, which cost $10,300, is three stories in height with a basement, and is constructed of brick. Mr. Alex. Greene was the contractor.

ON SOME OF THE ARTS ALLIED TO ARCHITECTURE. <article title=" ON SOME OF THE ARTS ALLIED TO ARCHITECTURE " author="Crane, Wally">

MR. WALTER CRANE, in an excellent paper on the above subject, says

I fail to see how any art can be wholly taught or learned on general principles, since it is of the nature of art to address itself to particular problems, the conditions of which constantly vary. Certain general principles have been evolved out of collective practice of more or less value no doubt in a general way, but they must always be able to qualification in their adaptation to particular cases.

Nothing of the nature of art can be formulated as an exact science happily, or the limits of its invention and variety would soon be reached. Art, however, has its scientific side, though the science of art is not exactly scientific or theoretic, but practical, and rather consists in recognizing particular necessities of conditions and materials anti the realizing that the frank acknowledgement of the nature of these conditions and materials leads in all the varieties of design, in association with craftsmanship and architecture, to the highest beauty.

The peculiar beauty of a stained-glass window, for instance, is entirely dependent upon this frank acknowledgement of conditions. A screen of transparent color, a pattern defined and united by leads and held in position by iron bars. Directly any attempt is made to overstep its natural limits—to make it look like a painted picture, to get chiaroscuro and vanishing points, or try to ignore the leading as an essential condition of its existence, the charm and joy of it is lost. There is a distinct character and beauty both in plain-leaded glass, throwing a pleasant network of simple geometric lines over the blankness of window panes. Henry Shaw, in his glazier's book, gives a great variety of delightful leading patterns.

Now, any design for a colored-glass window should, in the first place, be a good arrangement of lead lines, I think, a good pattern in short, whether figure subject or not ; and, secondly, a good pattern considered as an arrangement of color or jeweled light.

The artistic designer and maker of a wrought-iron gate, grille or railing, whatever fantasy he might introduce, would never forget the essential requirements of a gate, grille or railing. He would never forget the architectural relation of his work, or rather he would make the chief beauty and inventiveness of his treatment of wrought-iron spring out of that relation.

The practice of modeling in clay designs intended to be carved in wood has, it seems to me, been most destructive of the beauty and character of true wood carving. The same may be said of stone and marble; the essential spirit and go of the thing, the characteristic touch and treatment with each material, in which the designer works, claims as its own, and which is its own particular reason for existing these are, of course, lost, or turned out of recognition when a copy is made of something already existing in a material and produced by a method totally different.

Much better keep to simple moldings and plain paintings than bring in ornament which has no character or meaning of its own. We must not confuse the mere spreading of ornament with decoration in its true sense, for design in all its forms may be said to be governed by an architectural instinct of its own, which makes it a harmonious part of the building with which it is united, and which unites it, and puts it in harmony with itself. 



William Morris, in calling attention to the work of the designers of the past, recognizes the subtle sense of truth and simplicity, the delight in the beauty of nature around them, which was a perpetual tonic to the toil-pressed craftsman, and without which, no art, past or present, can have meaning or endurance. lie says, speaking especially of early Persian art, which in its best development, was decorative art: "In their own way they meant to tell us how the flowers grew in the gardens of Damascus or how the hunt was up tin the plains of Kirman, or how the tulips shone among the grass of the mid-Persian valley and how their souls delighted in it all, and what joy they had in life nor did they fail to make their meaning clear to some of us. One who has devoted much attention to the study of Greek art, lately remarked on the relation maintained in this masterpiece of mural sculpture between the relieved figures and the ground space ; each piece of relief is balanced by an empty space of the same extent, though, of course, different in shape, so that could the relievo he compared with the basso in the whole design, they would be found to correspond in extent."





PUBLICATIONS.

The name and good-will of Metal, of New York, have been sold to Mr. David Williams, who will amalgamate the paper with the Metal Worker

and the Iron Age.

Messrs. S. E. Hendricks & Co., Broadway, New York, have just issued the third annual edition of Hendricks Architects and Builders' Guide and Contractors' Directory of America." The book contains nearly 700 pages and 170,000 names and addresses arranged under 8oo classifications, it appears to have been compiled with care, and should prove valuable to architects, manufacturers and supply firms.

