<doctype type="text">August, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	87

<article title=" ORNAMENTAL TREATMENT OF IRON " author="">

ORNAMENTAL TREATMENT OF IRON. 

IRON has great cause to be dissatisfied with the mode of ornamental treatment it has received. Its special qualities as a building material have conferred such general advantages that it is a matter for regret we do not pay the attention to its appearance that we give to it in its purely useful capacity. The generous aid which it lends to us in the solution of our building difficulties and the manner in which, by its use, we are enabled to do so much that was hitherto impossible, surely demands that its worth shall cease to be covered by imitative and unsuitable designs. Who is the engineer or architect that has not had reason to be thankful for its aid, perhaps as a girder in getting over a troublesome span where intermediate supports would have been objectionable; or by its use as columns in the little lateral space taken tip in proportion to the work done, and where by reason of its bulk stone would have been inadmissible, and in return the mean action is taken of covering up the iron girder with wood and cement, and by painting and sanding, making it look like a stone lintel, which could never have done the work. Or in the case of a column, by molding it after a Classic model, totally ignoring the very palpable fact that by its lean shaft all the proportions of the model are lost. On no account should any of the Classic columnar Orders be applied to it, for if enough of iron is used to retain the usual proportions waste of materials is bound to occur, and, on the other hand, if the use is made economically the ratio of thickness to height is sure to result in a sickly and lean effect. The advantage of iron is that it enables us to do the work required with much less bulk than if stone, brick or wood were used; therefore it is contended that it is contrary to the ethics of good design to make it appear like those materials when doing its superior work. In the case of the girder or truss surely there can be no logical objection to their straightforward exposure. The rivets and the L irons could easily be left to make a presentable appearance. An example of a girder exposed is to be found in the front of a recent large building erection in Sydney, and it must be admitted that its calm, dignified and straightforward appearance is not unpleasing. The flanges and L. irons have been carefully worked, and the heads of the rivets left very clear but beyond this there is nothing in the way of ornamentation, and none is wanted, for where it has to do laborious work a simple but effectual appearance is the best, and it would be entirely out of place fancifully to ornament it. Deference must of course be paid to the necessity for sheathing the iron columns and girders with fire-resisting material; but this is not always necessary, for there have been one or two examples of iron columns and girders so constructed and arranged that by means of a fusible plug in case of a fire, a continuous stream of cold water will circulate throughout them, provision also being made that all cradles and seating should have similar benefit and an able paper was read before the Engineering Association of New South Wales touching on the subject, which will be found in the Proceedings of that Institute for 1892. Wrought iron is capable of lending itself to very delicate and artistic treatment, and recourse to it should always be taken to give the necessary contrast to the heavier and more substantial construction. Gates, grilles, railings, finials, etc., are excellent chances to treat in a light way, and the most beautiful results can be obtained. Every designer c-in appreciate the addition to the proportions of a building which a raised and curved roof makes, and the strength and pliability of wrought iron in every way conduces to the easy attainment of such roofs. Sir Gilbert Scott in Gothic Architecture, Secular and Domestic expresses the opinion that "there can be no doubt that the iron roof is susceptible of exquisite beauty." And it would indeed be difficult to prove the contrary. But unfortunately it is seldom that even an attempt is made to gain such a result. It is, however-, in its cast state that most of the anomalies exist. At the present there is a term -"cast-iron impudence," which is freely used, and actually it might be suggested that it had its origin in the glaring and impudent manner in which cast-iron ornament is plastered over our buildings. It is not going too far to say that almost 8o per cent of recent erections in the colonies have in some way been made to rely on this stuff for appearance, and yet at the same time it would be impossible to find more than about six different designs amongst the whole. In every city and town is to be found the cast-iron shop, the keeper of which has set out on the walls the same monotonous display of specimens to be found in every other place of a like nature. He calls each design by some fanciful but totally inappropriate name. He sells it by the foot, it is put up by the foot and the result is a never-ending array of yard after yard of cast-iron, soutterly bereft of any variety or beauty as to be positively offensive to a tasteful eye and totally stamp out even a spark of regard for cast-iron. It is not only the want of variety or beauty in the design, but also the roughness of the casting, no care being taken to preserve a good surface or sharp edges; and the casting very often appears a confused mass of dots and lumps. It must not be thought that the purpose of this paper is to entirely condemn the principle of treating it for ornamental purposes; but some improvement might be made with advantage in the habit of making in cast-iron an attempt to resemble, for instance, ferns or other vegetable forms. Cast-iron should not be used for purposes of ornamentation only, but rather primarily as meeting a necessity and then ornamented to make presentable.



 From a paper by Mr. Jas. Mangle, read before the Engineering Association of South Wales.

As an instance, might be taken a column in a store, the plain shaft of which together with a simple and unostentatious cap merging in a cradle with bracing studs, is far better and more in place than to have an elaborate thing in Corinthian style put in somewhere in the front, with no other reason for its existence than that it is intended to make a nice appearance; or again, would it not be far better to just have a little, but suitable wrought-iron work, judiciously used, than all the cast-iron fringes, crests, brackets and finials, which are so unmercifully used? Cast-iron is best used only when compressive strain is to be resisted, and in such cases it should be very unostentatiously beautiful. If used only for ornamental purposes the greatest care should always be exercised not to indulge in an excess which is so tempting tin account of the ease with which such is produced. All materials which allow of being molded or cast, and thereby easily multiplied, conduce to quantity in large proportion, to trouble in production, and human nature is so fond of display that the inevitable result is over bearing and debased ornamentation; not so much the consequence of itself in its parts being bad, as because of being in direct violation of the rule

"that of the best we may have too much."



 Montreal 

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER.)

A decision has just been rendered by Judge Determiner of the Superior Court upon a novel and important point. Mr. Alex. Hurtubise, against whom the late Mr. J. J. Brown, architect, brought action for $30,000 damages for injuries sustained by being run over on the public highway, petitioned for an order to compete deceased's family to allow an autopsy to take place, the petitioners contention being that such an autopsy would reveal the fact that Mr. Brown died of diabetes, and not from the injuries received. The judge refused to grant the petition, on the ground that although Mr. Hurtubise had a real interest in the matter, still the court could not take upon itself to protect an individual interest by violating the general principle which makes the home of each family a castle that must be respected in its sanctity and privacy.

A movement is on foot to have a boulevard constructed of the width of 150 feet from the market on St. Lawrence Main street to St. Denis street, with the Monument Nationale at one end and the new Laval University building at the other.

A recent examination by the Inspector of Buildings revealed the fact that the spire of St. Andrew's church has shifted about six inches in a northeasterly direction. In consequence steps have been taken to anchor it more firmly.

Thomas Evans and Edward Reit have registered to carry on business as general eon tractors.

Upwards of $200,000 is said to have been expended last year in making extensions and improvements to hotel buildings in this city for the purpose of accommodating the crowds of visitors who were expected to stop over here en route to or from the World's Fair. The crowds have failed to put in an appearance, and the hotel owners are lamenting their fate.

Death is rapidly thinning the ranks of senior Montreal architects, three of whom have been called away within the last year. The last to be emit down was Mr. John James Browne, who died at his home in this city at an early hour on Thursday, the 3rd inst. Mt. Browne received serious injury by being knocked down by a horse and sleigh on the street in Montreal last November, and although for a time he rallied, the accident appears to have induced an attack of Bright's disease to which he eventually succumbed. Mr. Brownie was born in the city of Quebec on the 12th of October, 1837, and was educated at the High School in that city. He began the practice of architecture when nineteen years of age. and obtained second and first-class certificates as the result of a post-graduate course under the celebrated engineer and architect, Lord Russell. He had an extensive practice in this city and province. He was elected a member of the Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects at the last annual convention. He was also a member of the Montreal Board of Trade and a Justice of the Peace. A wife, three sons and three daughters are his survivors.



LONDON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

A well-known contractor of this city writes: I observe in the London correspondence of the Architect AND Builder for July the statement that there is a good opening in this city at present for outside contractors, owing to the limited number of bidders and the large amount of work in progress and projected. Your readers ate told that for want of competition the cost of buildings is maintained at such high figures as must tend to retard building enterprise This is far from being a correct presentation of the situation in this city. The facts arc that at present the member of resident contractors is more than sufficient to provide active competition in tendering for all contracts. As regards prices, they are barely sufficient to cover the cost of the work and leave a slight margin of profit to the contractor. Surely it is not desired that contractors should work for nothing An attempt is being made by some of our local architects to introduce some of the features of modern American architecture into their designs, especially in residence work. The local contractors not having had experience with work of this class, do not know with any degree of definiteness wham he cost of execution may be. In submitting tenders, therefore, they increase their bids for this class of work as compared with the work to which they have been accustomed to the extent which they deem necessary to cover the extra cost of its execution. This is all the foundation that exists for the statement that prices have advanced or are higher than usual.



Hamilton

	(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect AND	Builder.)



Mr. George Webb. a well-known builder of this city, was recently summoned before the courts at the instance of the Building Inspector, on a charge of violating the city building by-law The offence alleged consisted of covering with wood instead of metal the tower of a church building. Mr. Webb showed that the wood covering of the tower was eased with brick, whereupon the magistrate dismissed the ease.

The expenditures of the Board of Works have already exceeded the appropriation by the sum of $10,000.

The residence of Mr. James Balfour, architect, was recently ransacked by burglars.

the significant statement appears in one of the daily papers that while the building permits for a given month aggregate $57,675, the actual building operations have been much more extensive. In other words the building by-law, which requires a permit to be obtained prior to the commencement of every building, is not enforced.

