<doctype type="text">	August, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



some wealthy citizen to endow a Chair of Architecture and by so doing take rank among the men whose illustrious gifts have been the means of placing this University in the foremost position which it now occupies amongst the educational institutions of the world. We trust that at the approaching annual convention of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects this subject will receive the earnest attention which its importance demands.



<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

QUEEN'S HOTEL, MONTREAL—A. F. DUNLOP, ARCHITECT,

MONTREAL.

The building is situated at the corner of St. James and Windsor streets, near the Bonaventure Railroad depot. It is thoroughly fireproof. The walls are lined with terra cotta fireproof material, the floors and roof being constructed with rolled steel beams, filled in with terra cotta arches and strengthened with shell built angle columns. The principal interior walls are constructed of brick, and the whole facade of imported Scotch sandstone.

CHRIST CHURCH CATHEDRAL, OXFORD, OXFORDSHIRE—

SKETCH BY MR. E. G. BIRD.

The accompanying sketch is a view looking towards the choir through the Lantern Tower from the North Transept. The

LEGAL DECISIONS. <article title=" LEGAL DECISIONS " author="">

AN action has been tried in the Irish Queen's Bench Division, with the Secretary of State for War as plaintiff; the defendant being Mr. John Good, a builder, the particulars of which we find recorded in the Builders' Reporter. The plaintiff claimed 4o5L damages for alleged breach of contract in regard to the proposed erection of certain buildings at the Currah Camp Co., Kildare, and in respect of which the defendant was to receive 4,995l. The plaintiff alleged that it was a term of the contract that upon the expiration of two weeks from the time of receiving possession of the site the works should be commenced and proceeded with all due diligence, so that the brickwork should be finished and the buildings roofed and completed within nine months. It was further stipulated that if the defendant failed to commence at the date mentioned and proceed in the manner agreed upon, the plaintiff should be at liberty to make any other contract for the completion of the works upon such terms as to the plaintiff should seem best, and to charge the excess of cost to the defendant. The site was handed over to the defendant in accordance with the contract, but he did not proceed with the works, and the plaintiff, owing to the default of the defendant was compelled to make a contract with another contractor, and the plaintiff had to pay this other contractor the sum of 5,400l. for the works contracted to he built and completed by the defendant, being an excess of cost of 405l. over the amount agreed upon by the defendant.

































































earliest annals of this church date back to Saxon times and connect themselves with the almost legendary history of a renowned priory founded by St. Fredeswide, who died in 740 A. D. The Cathedral as it is to be seen now, was commenced in 1120 A. D., by Prior Guimond, and completed in 1180 A. D., and is a very interesting architectural type of the transition period between the Norman and early English styles. The roof of the choir is the work of Cardinal Wolsley in the beginning of the 16th century, and except in size, it is one of the best and most remarkable ever executed.

C. A. AND B. COMPETITION FOR A SERVICE PANTRY—DESIGN

By "Spero MELIORA" (MR. ERNEST WILBY.)

COMPETITIVE DESIGN	ST. JOHN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH, TORONTO Awarded Second PRIZE—J. FRANCIS BROWN,

.b in Architect TORONTO



COMPETITIONS. <article title=" COMPETITIONS " author="">

FIVE sets of 'plans were submitted in the competition for plans for the improvement of St. Lawrence Market, Toronto, for which $1,000 in prizes was offered by the City Council. The judging of the merits of the designs was done by the aldermen. The first prize was awarded to Mr. 14. G. Paull, the second to Messrs. Strickland & Symons and the third to Mr. A. W. Peene, all of. Toronto The cost of carrying out Mr. Paull's design is estimated at $71,000.

The defense was a denial of the terms of thc contract, and that it was a term of the contract that in the event of the combination or strikes of workman or other causes beyond the contractor's control the defendant should be excused and discharged from the performance of the terms of the contract. The defendant stated that he duly commenced and proceeded with the works, but shortly after the commencement a strike for an advance of wages occurred amongst the workmen and laborers employed by the defendant on the works and by reason of thc strike the defendant was prevented from proceeding with and completing thc works pursuant to the contract, and under its terms he became discharged from the performance thereof. It was denied that he was guilty of any default in relation to the contract; that it was by reason of any default of his that thc plaintiff was compelled to make a contract with another contractor for the building and completion of thc works, or that the plaintiff had made another contract, or that he had paid to another contractor the sum of 5,400l. in regard to thc works.

Mr. Justice Holmes submitted the following questions to the jury Whether the works were delayed by reason of the strikes of the workmen, and was satisfactory proof of this given to the Secretary of State for War.

The jury found for the defendant.



Send for a copy of the "Canadian Contractors' Hand-Book' (second edition). Price, $1.50; to subscribers, $1.00.

