	<doctype type="text">84	The CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	August, 1893



We lately referred to the fact that an enquiry had been received by the Dominion Government from Jamaica for ready made houses, and pointed out to Canadian builders and manufacturers that a profitable opening for business in this line might be found to exist. We now learn that Messrs. Rhodes, Curry & Co., of Truro, N. S., have embarked in this enterprise, and have recently forwarded their first shipment of houses to Jamaica. These houses require to be proof against dampness and the attacks of insects which in that country honeycomb the softer kinds of wood. To meet this requirement the manufacturers have employed Southern or hard pine. The houses are one storey in height, and in size 27 feet by 20 feet. The roof is covered by a special preparation of felt. The sides are made of panels three feet square, neatly trimmed with suitable moulding, the whole ornamented with gables and a neat cresting on the roof. Everything required in the construction of the houses was cut and fitted to its place and each piece numbered.

<article title=" ITALIAN " author="">

ITALIAN labor has of late been largely employed in the construction of railroad and other works in Canada. The Italian laborers have superseded those of other nationalities because their services can be obtained cheaper. There is, however, reason to believe that the saving to the contractor is not so great or so real as at first sight it appears. Experienced contractors assure us that Italians cannot compare with Irishmen as shovelmen. Unlike the latter they are not given to celerity of movement. We have been told of a contractor's foreman whose gang of Irish excavators was supplanted by Italians, and who was much annoyed at the lack of expedition which the latter displayed. Suddenly he bethought him of a method by which to accelerate their movements. A skillful Irish shovelman was quietly told to take his place with shovel and wheelbarrow among the Italians, and "lead them a chase." This, having no love for the Italians, he was eager enough to do. The speed at which the Italians were obliged to work in order to keep pace with the Irishman was such as they had never before experienced, and while it conduced to the contractor s profits did not enhance the friendship of the Italians for the Irishman.



THE municipal fathers of a town in northern Ontario are posing in a somewhat peculiar way as disciples of the evolution theory. It is not the evolution of the species which is engaging their attention, but the evolution of architectural ideas. Having been entrusted with the arrangements for the erection of a new town hall and market building to cost nearly $20,000, their first resolve seems to have been to avoid having anything to do with an architect. Their' next step was to call in a local carpenter and ask him to prepare a rough design. Having secured this, they instructed one of the builders in the town to prepare the plans, 'which, on examination, met the views of some of the members of the Council but were declared by others and by the majority of the citizens to be unsuitable. In order that this important point may be satisfactorily decided, it has now been found necessary to procure the opinion and advice of an architect. It is to be hoped that the evolution theory will now be abandoned in favor of common sense methods, and that in the case of this and other works of like importance, the saving of a few hundred dollars in architects' fees will not be accomplished at the sacrifice of architectural beauty and utility.

<article title=" COMMERCIAL " author="">

COMMERCIAL depression seems to exist at present throughout the world. In Europe business conditions are far from satisfactory. The recent financial crisis in Australia and in the United states at the present time have laid in ruins many business enterprises in these countries, and has given rise to a widespread feeling of alarm. In the city of New York alone at the present time reports from the various trades unions show that, out of a total of 99,950 members, 36,177, or 37 6-10ths per cent, are unemployed, while the total number of unemployed workmen in the city is placed at 100,000. In the case of some trades, as for example that of plumbing, over 50 per cent. of the union workmen are reported to be out of employment. This condition of affairs across the border is likely to be accentuated in the west at least by the closing of the World's Fair a month hence. The Builders' and Contractors' Association of New South Wales decided some time since to reduce the wages of all workmen in

the building trades by 10 per cent. For a time a strike of the workmen threatened to be the result, but more common sense counsels prevailed, and the reduction was accepted. Canada, 100 has been passing through a time of depression, but owing to her magnificent banking system, her agricultural resources, and the absence to a great extent of the speculative spirit among her people she has thus far escaped disasters such as have overtaken her neighbors. With the prospect of a harvest of unusual abundance, there is good reason to hope that the situation in Canada will steadily improve.



SOME interesting evidence was lately given by Mr. Stanley G. Bird, a well known master builder of London, before the Royal Commission on Labor. Mr. Bird testified that the cost of labor in the building trades had doubled within the last thirty-five years; that brickwork which then cost 40s. a rod, costs now from 8o to 905. The surprising part of the testimony was, however, the statement that notwithstanding the great increase which had taken place in the rate of wages, the workman of today did not accomplish more than half the amount of work which his predecessor was accustomed to do. The witness stated that where it used to be the custom for a good bricklayer to lay a thousand bricks a day, three or four hundred is about the usual thing now. With regard to joinery the witness said, that although the workmen are given the use of machinery, the labor costs just as much as it did twenty-five years ago, when the men had to cut the stuff out of the deal, strap it up, square it up and work it. In answer to the enquiry of the examiner, Mr. Bird plainly said that the workman of to-day, instead of doing a fair day's work, does as little as he can. These statements were corroborated by a number of other builders present. While they certainly do not apply to all workmen, they are no doubt correct as regards the majority, and the condition of affairs which they reveal is far from being creditable to unionism, to the influence of which the change is chiefly due. In Canada the rate of wages has similarly advanced. As to the return given by the workman of to-day as compared with a former period, we are not in a position to speak with authority. The rise of wages alone, however, has been sufficient to largely increase the cost of building notwithstanding, contractors are obliged to take work at lower figures than ever before. Instead of the increased cost being a charge upon the owner of the building, as it properly should be, keenness of competition necessitates that it come out of the profits of the contractor, and in many instances it is sufficient to turn profit into loss.



THERE is no more important subject that can engage the attention of the Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec than that of the proper education of students. By the liberality of the provincial Government of Ontario, a Department of Architecture has been established in connection with the School of Practical Science at Toronto, and the beneficial influence arising therefrom is already manifest. The Department of Architecture has been warmly endorsed and supported by the Ontario Association of Architects, and will no doubt grow in efficiency and exercise a marked influence upon the architects and architecture of Canada in the future. Unfortunately the architectural students of the Province of Quebec are at present without any means of securing instruction other than that which they may obtain by serving a term in an architect's office. While experience of this kind is most important and necessary, something more is required to equip the architect of the future to practice his profession in a manner that shall bring honor to himself and to the community in which he labors. Commendable attempts have been made to impart instruction to the students in Montreal through the medium of classes and lectures under the direction of leading members of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, but with indifferent success. Teaching is itself a profession, and very few architects however large the stock of information which they may have acquired, are possessed of the faculty of successfully imparting their knowledge to others. What is required is a Department of Architecture to be established in connection with McGill University, To this object we hope to see early and determined effort directed by the architects of the Province. All the accommodation which such a Department would require already exists in the splendid Technological School which has recently been erected. It only remains for

