<doctype type="text">September, 1893	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	97



PAINTERS' MEASUREMENTS.

<article title=" PAINTERS' MEASUREMENTS " author="">

IN England the custom is to employ a clerk quick at figures, whose duty it is to take off, from the plans and specifications, an accurate list of all the materials and labor required in the performance of the work, setting down in each ease the number of yards or feet as the case may be, of each item. In the case of painting, the figures obtained for the carpenter and joiner prove of service also for the work to be done by the painter. The following is a table that is intended to indicate the method of measurement of painters' work, and a/so the order in which the various items may be taken. A similar table added to or changed, as might be necessary to suit American methods of construction, would be very useful to have on hand when getting out estimates, as it would insure nothing being left out. The table which follows accurately indicates the English practice



Lead, in oil on white work, at—- per yard super.

	cement ''	''

	Ornamental railings, etc.,	" ''	'' "

		''	'' ''

Skylights,

Skirtings, 12 in. girth and under, at per ft. run.

	Strings,	'' ''	''

	Chair rails, ''	''	"

 Balusters, ''		''	''

	Rain pipes, ''	'' ''	''	''

Ornamental heads,	number.

	Ears		"

	Shoes,		"

	Eaves, gutter,	"	foot run.

	Stopped ends,	"	number.

Outlets,



Swan necks,

	Cement reveals (jambs)	"	foot run.

Cornices under ——- girth	"

Window sills,

Coping edge,

Stone strings, "	"

Stone plinths, ''	''

Iron castings, "	"

	Grate bars	"

	Sash squares,	"	dozen.

	Sash frames,	"	number.

Small ''

Two-light casement frames,

	Four ''	'' ''	''

	Sash squares,	"	dozen.

	Brackets,	"	number.

Finals 

Step ladders,

 Dressers,

Chimney pieces,	"

Four oils and extra finished varnish, gray, " yard super.

Grainer ; extra grain for wainscot

and twice varnish,

Grainer ; extra grain enrichment

	for brackets 4 in. wide,	"	foot run.

Stainer stain to an approved tint

and twice varnish with the

	best copal varnish,	"	foot super.

	French polisher; French polishing, "	"	"

	French polishing to hand rails,	"	foot run.

	Gilder; gilding on flat surface,	"	foot super.

Gilder on carved work, stating

	height and description,	"	foot run.

	Molded work, stating girth,	"	"	"

Boards, etc., '' ''

	Carved caps,	"	"	"

Brasses and simple items of a

	similar nature,	"	"	"

<article title=" A FAVORABLE COMPARISON " author="">

A FAVORABLE COMPARISON.

MR. James A. Macdonald, architect, Regina, Assa., writes as follows "Enclosed please find $2, for which please send to me for one year the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. have been taking your paper through the news dealers, and like it very much, as I consider it compares very favorably with the best American publications of the same class."

A FRENCH METHOD OF WARMING HOUSES. <article title=" A FRENCH METHOD OF WARMING HOUSES " author="">

To sum up these new methods, tire teachings of M. Somesco, suggest that the natural porosity of the walls, especially the outer walls should not be destroyed. These walls should be decorated, not with paper and paint, but with porous, non-conducting substances, such as wooden drapery The outer walls on the side nearest to the inner surface should be hollowed throughout, thus constituting a double wall, with a space of about four inches between the two walls. A heating contrivance, of whatever description may be found most expedient or economical, should be placed in the basement of the house. A warm-air chamber or shaft traveling round the base of the outer walls should supply to the hollow in the walls air taken from the outside and warmed at the point of admission in the wall to a temperature of from 100 degrees to 120 degrees Fahr. This should maintain the temperature of the inner wall at from 80 degrees to 90 degrees Fahr. Then he considers, the walls will radiate sufficient heat through the rooms to enable the inhabitants to constantly open the doors and windows, arid to breathe cold, fresh, outer air without inconvenience. As a rule fires will be unnecessary, dampness will be completely banished from the house, and to maintain some moisture in the air it would, he thinks, be expedient to decorate the house with numerous evergreen plants. The inhabitants should then be able to benefit by unlimited ventilation, and could breathe pure, cold, and fresh air, coming upon them directly from the outside.— Popular Science Monthly.

