<doctype type="text">	September, 1893	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	93



________ CORRESPONDENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects related to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The he publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]



<article title=" ENGLISH STAINED GLASS FOR CANADA " author="">

ENGLISH STAINED GLASS FOR CANADA.

Three very large and handsome windows of stained glass have just been completed by a local firm (Messrs. Wails & Strange of Westgate-road) and forwarded for shipment to Halifax, Nova Scotia. They are designed for St. Paul's, Halifax, the oldest, largest and most wealthy church in Nova Scotia and commemorate the late Judge of Equity of the Province, John W. Ritchie one of whose brothers is a judge of the Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, and another Sir William Ritchie, recently deceased, was Chief Justice of Canada. These windows are to be erected in the east end of the chancel of the church, and from very superior examples of the glass stainer's art. The subjects are drawn from the life of the Savior, the central window representing the Ascension, and those to the right and left the bearing of the cross and resurrection respectively. It is interesting to know that the s particular industry of Newcastle is largely represented in Canada, the firm in question having numerous examples of their art in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Toronto, and throughout the Dominion generally.—The Newcastle Chronicle.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR Sir,---The enclosed clipping from an English newspaper has come under our notice, and we think merits attention. While every one with true artistic instincts would welcome undoubted specimens of the work of the best English designers in stained glass, it seems a cause for regret that when commissions of this kind represents a moderate outlay of money, it should not he spent in Canada. Work such as the firm in question does can be and is easily surpassed by Canadian firms. It is surely time that the idea, so prevalent formerly in other lines, that an imported article is necessarily superior, should have been exploded also in this branch of work as it has in many others.

Yours truly,

ELLIOTT & SON,



94 Bay Street, Toronto,



<article title=" OBJECT LESSONS FOR STUDENTS " author="">

OBJECT LESSONS FOR STUDENTS.

TORONTO, Sept. 12, 1893.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—I beg to submit herewith a few observations and queries touching work in course of erection as a means of education to students of architecture.

Competent builders must be, first of all, practical men. The practical side of the work does not enter so largely into the essential qualifications of an architect, but the more practical architects and draughtsman are, the more pleasant will be the relations of all branches of the "allied arts," and the more satisfactory will he the results of all their efforts.

In obtaining the practical knowledge so much to be desired, all students of architecture will no doubt regard works in course of erection as the most helpful. But to what extent do students avail themselves of this help, and to what extent is it available in proportion to the great benefits which should be derived therefrom? An individual draughtsman with ambition, energy, perception and common sense, will occasionally betake himself to some particular job for the purpose of gathering some bits of information. So, also, an opportunity is sometimes afforded to students or architects to visit a special work in a body, under the guidance of an experienced head, thus making such a visit of great interest and profit. But the writer believes that such visits as those referred to constitute a very small part of the attention which should be given to works in course of erection; and I desire to mention one circumstance which I believe operates more than any other to discourage and limit the use of this kind of study. This restraining influence is the fact that all works of such a nature as to be interesting to the student are hedged about more or less with notices of " No Admittance," etc., and a general air of exclusiveness which is not at all conducive to quiet and peaceful observation. I know it is necessary to keep the general public outside of certain limits, to carry on work. Should one venture to penetrate a little beyond this limit, he is very likely to be made to understand that he is regarded as an intruder, and an interference with the progress of the work.

Generally, by going to more or less trouble, a student can get permission to make a solitary visit, or possibly more, to an attractive work. But would it not encourage students to seek out these attractions more frequently if the privileges sought were to be expected as a matter of common courtesy to the profession, instead of being obtained as a special favor?

There are at all times works going on in this city which would be of very great interest and value as objects of study could one but feel at liberty to spend a few minutes on them now and

again while pasting and reposing, as they are progressing. The City Hall and Court House and the new Drill Shed might be cited as splendid examples of first-class work. Of particular interest to some students would the iron roof trusses of the Drill Shed be in their present stage. Will anybody pretend that these and other works are benefiting as they should the students of architecture of the city?

Suppose it should be announced throughout the province that Toronto proposed to expend two millions of dollars or so in the next five years in providing the best possible object lessons for students of architecture, would it not create great enthusiasm And is not just such work being clone without any regard for its utility in the direction here suggested?

Now I believe, that if it was generally understood throughout the building trades, and among architects and students, that a special uniform card or badge, presented at the entrance to any work, public or private, would secure cheerful admittance and courteous treatment within reasonable limitations, students would make ten such visits for every one that is now made. Would not such an arrangement be worthy of the kindly consideration of architects and builders, with a view of placing practical knowledge within easier reach of those interested, in some such way as here suggested?

 STUDENT.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

DESIGN FOR A SMALL TOWN HOUSE.

The house comprises parlor, dining room and kitchen on ground floor, four bed rooms and bath room on first floor, and two bed rooms and store room in attic, besides closets, pantries, &c. It is of frame construction. Externally the entire building may be shingled, or if desired, clap boards may be used up to the water-table above ground floor.

If cedar shingles be used, they will need no staining, but the window sash and frame and all other external woodwork should be painted white. Interior wood work, if of pine, should be painted white or in light tones to harmonize with the decorations of the various rooms.

A sheet of details to accompany this design will be published in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for October.

This house would cost, according to local conditions, from $2,000 to $2, 500.

<article title=" HOUSE ON ST. GEORGE STREET " author="">

HOUSE ON ST. GEORGE STREET, TORONTO, FOR MR. ALEX. McARTHUR.—D. B. DICK, ARCHITECT.

In this house all the cut stone work, also the coursing and squared rubble, are of brown Credit Valley stone, and the gables are tile hung. The house contains 4 public rooms and 9 bedrooms and dressing rooms, exclusive of those for servants also 2 bathrooms. The principal rooms, the bathrooms and the main halls and staircase, are all finished in polished hardwoods of different kinds, including quarter cut white oak, mahogany, bird's eye maple, cherry and chestnut. The windows are finished with sliding sitters. The house and conservatory are warmed by hot water, and the lighting throughout is by gas and electric light combination fixtures. The total cost was about $25,000.

CARVED PANELS IN THE RESIDENCE OF MR. DUNCAN McIntyre, Montreal —W. T. THOMAS, ARCHITECT;

H.	BEAUMONT, SCULPTOR.



ERSKINE CHURCH, MONTREAL—A. C. HUTCHISON, ARCHITECT.



PERSONAL.



Mr. A. E. Wells, who during the last year has been in the, office of a New York architectural firm, spent his vacation in Toronto and at Niagara-the-Lake.

The marriage is announced at St. Southsea, Eng., on the 3rd of August, of Mr. E. W. Rathbun, president of the Rathhun Co.. Deseronto, Ont., to Miss Aileen Blair.



Mr. Richard Bond, who was one of the pioneers in railroad construction in Canada, died at his daughters residence in Toronto on the 12th of August, aged 82 years. 



To MAKE POSITIVE COPIES OF DRAWINGS.---The paper to receive the impression is coated with a two per cent. solution of dichromate of ammonium, to which a little grape sugar has been added and then dried in the dark. The sheet containing the drawing is laid upon the prepared paper and exposed to the light until the paper has assumed a gray color. It is now dipped into a I per cent solution of nitrate of silver, one-tenth of the volume of which consists of acetic acid. The positive image developed thereby becomes dark brown on drying.

