<doctype type="text">



The next example (Fig. 4) diverts our attention in the direction of French art, and will doubtless be useful to our conferes

LEADED Windows. <article title=" LEADED Windows " author="">

The increasing love of picturesqueness and quaintness in our dwellings has caused us to revive and admire in the present day many of the old customs and fashions of our remote forefathers. Strangely, too, says Furniture and Decoration, we have thus often reproduced from sheer choice those very things that were made some centuries ago from absolute necessity. In no matter

as a bona fide specimen of leaded work of the Louis Quinze

period. It should not be forgotten that in much of the leaded

of household taste is this peculiar fact more demonstrated than in the present revival of leaded windows.

In olden days when glass was dear and difficult to make in large pieces the subtle cunning of "ye skilful glazier" prompted him to join his little bits of glass into a large window by means of grooved leads. Into these "cames" he set his small panes, adding piece to piece, until by dint of such conjunctions he produced a lattice or sliding window to fit the wall opening which it was his mission to fill.

Now these old leaded windows—-even the simplest of them, as seen in some of the country cottages at the present time are remarkably picturesque, and many of them are admirable lessons in design, and bespeak much gifted thought upon the part of him who first invented them. It is no wonder then that they are nowadays so assiduously studied and revived, and it is well that such charming and homely embellishments to the modern house should continue to be regarded with the admiration that they deserve.

The several fine old examples of leaded windows which appear on this page have been collected from various places at



























home and abroad, hence they are considerably diversified in character. The first sketch shows a delightful old window which we noted some time since in the sleepy silent town of Bruges. It is an example designed with consummate skill, and may be regarded as a standard of excellence in its particular style.

Figs. 2 and 3 are rough notes of two leaded windows existing at Moreton Hall, Cheshire. The first of these is simple and formal, but the second is more fanciful, and is evidently intended to illusively convey an idea of projection by the geometrical arrangements of the diamonds and straight bars.

work of that period, gilt was largely employed to enhance the effect.

The next sketch (Fig. 5) presents us with a beautiful specimen of old Tudor work. The flow of the lines and the consequent dropping of the pattern, the evident strength of the judiciously joined glass are points that must at once commend this example to our attention. There is just sufficient Gothic feeling in it to make it interesting, whilst the abundance of easy curves in its outline make it agreeable even to the taste of those who dislike mediaeval art.

The last illustration is interesting, not only because of its design, but also on account of its associations. It is a sketch of a small window in Michael Angelo's private study in his house, or rather palace, at Florence. Whether it was designed by the great

master or not it is impossible to say, but that it was in his house will be, to most of us, a sufficient recommendation of its beauty.



LEGAL DECISIONS. <article title=" LEGAL DECISIONS " author="">

MORRIS V. THARLE.—Judgment of the Chancery Court on appeal by the plaintiff from an order of Meredith, J., in Chambers, upon appeal from a Master's certificate, disallowing the claim of the plaintiff, a material man, to establish a mechanic's lien upon the land of the defendant Ryan, upon the ground that the registration was late, having regard to the times of the supplying of the materials. The court held that the plaintiffs sub-contract with the defendant Tharle the contractor, must be considered a continuing contract for the supply of all the goods, and although some of the articles supplied were not within thirty days of the registration, the plaintiff was entitled to the benefit of his lien. Appeal allowed 'with costs, to be added to the plaintiffs claim.  <article title=" MORRIS V. THARLE " author="">



SPANISH GLASS.—The first mention of glass works in Spain is found in Pliny and the next allusion to this is in the works of San Isadore, who lived in the seventh century. Glass was made to a great extent in the Spanish Peninsula during the Roman period. The manufacture had ceased to exist in the seventh century. There are no specimens of Spanish glass of the Visgothic period, but from the eighth to the fifteenth century it is inferred that the industry of glass making became as important in Spain as that of pottery. No specimens of the earlier period, however, have reached our time, and we must judge of what it is from the glass vessels belonging to the Renaissance period, which preserve their oriental form and are of a different style to that of Venice and other localities in Europe.

<article title=" SPANISH GLASS " author="">