<doctype type="text">

With the close of the vacation and the approach of the long evenings incident to autumn and winter, the present would seem to be a fitting time to consider the proposal which has been made that an Architectural Club, composed of architects and students, should if possible be established in Toronto. The desirability of forming a local organization which would provide means of social relaqation as well as profitable instruction for the architects and students of the city, and which would receive the united support of these classes, was clearly set forth in the letter by Mr. A. H. Gregg announcing the dissolution of the Toronto Architectural Club at the close of last winter. We hope that Mr. Gregg will further endeavor to enlist the co-operation of those who should bc interested in an endeavor to give practical shape to thc idea.

veyed and was thoroughly examined. There were ample data at hand to determine the topography and geology of thc route; the promoters were in possession of the fullest possible information before the work was commenced. Unforeseen difficulties encountered during the construction caused the ruin of the company, who had to appeal to the City of Manchester for a very large sum of money to help them along. The Georgian Bay canal and aqueduct scheme is in its present form a visionary proposal, projected by some unknown philanthropic American capitalists for the special benefit of "land poor" Toronto. It is one with which the City of Toronto should have no dealings till it comes recommended by the Board of Trade and some large financial institutions.

RECENT legislation and the increased caution exercised by the loan companies is strongly tending to force out of the ranks of the builders those who possess little or no capital. These causes, aside from the lifeless condition of the real estate market, arc operating to check speculative building in Toronto. Under present conditions the loan companies will not advance money to the builder until his building is ready to be roofed in, and not then even unless he can present a statutory declaration in accordance with the provisions of the amended Mechanics1 Lien Law, showing that not more than fourteen days wages are due to his employees. Should the mortgagor fail to satisfy himself on this point before granting a loan, the claim of the employees for arrears of wages is given priority over the mortgage Under clause 6 of the amended Mechanics' Lien Act, a similar declaration is required for the protection of the owner before payments are made to the builder on account of the work done on his contract. All this means that the builder must have the means to purchase considerable material and pay the wages of his workmen until his contract is well advanced.



WE are pleased to observe that the remarks recently printed in this journal anent thc improvement of the water front of the City of Toronto, are seconded in an editorial which has appeared in the Toronto Globe, thc writer of which says "On the waterfront is a great stretch of property, from Yonge to York street, affording admirable dockage for the steadily-increasing fleet of passenger steamers that make their head-quarters in Toronto. They carry hundreds of thousands of passengers yearly, many of them tourists, who spend large sums in Toronto. These visitors obtain their first impressions of Toronto, in many cases, from the temporary and ugly sheds around the wharves. First impressions last. The Mayor and Council should see to it that the present season ends all this. The land in question was, after a bitter fight with the C. P. R., reserved for public docks. Full possession of it will be secured in a few weeks at latest, and before the end of the year new and substantial wharves should be build, the place reserved for a public square fixed upon, and reclamation work begun. It will be too late to build the wharves next season before lake traffic opens. The work, if done now, will pay the city a large dividend and will do much to expand the already large lake travel."



THE untiring energy of Mr. E. A. Macdonald has once again revived the Georgian Bay canal scheme. With much adroitness he has presented a tempting prospectus—a ship canal and shortened navigation ; a power canal with an unlimited supply of water capable of developing more electrical energy than Toronto can use for many a long year and Lake Simcoe—a happy solution of the water question. The canal question, with shortened water route to the north west lakes, will always present attractions there are many reasons why the question should be carefully debated; there is good reason for believing that shortened water routes will be acceptable to thc commerce of the country. The present canal project alone, (independently of thc water power and supply). is one of immense magnitude. To bring the level of Lake Huron to the south side of thc water shed known as the Oak Ridges, will require cuttings from 150 to 180 feet deep. When Lesseps tried to do this on his Panama canal, he brought down the whole country side into his canal. In thc construction of the Manchester ship canal in England, the route was much better known than the country between Toronto and Collingwood. It had been carefully sur

Mr. SALEY, editor of the Northwestern Lumberman, presented a paper to the International Forestry Congress at Chicago, entitled, "Ignorance Concerning Woods." It may interest architects to read his opinion as to their knowledge of the qualities of the various kinds of wood employed in building. It is contained in thc following extract "If I were to arraign more severely one class of men than another for their ignorance concerning woods, it would be our architects, for the reason that it is their business to know. They can tell us about the wearing quality of different stones, the crushing strength of this material and that, but when it comes to any specific knowledge of the lumber used inside of our houses for doors, casings, floors, mopboards and possibly ceilings—objects which are constantly before our eyes—they are wofully ignorant. When furnishing a fine house you select for one room furniture, carpets and draperies of colors to blend, and for adjoining rooms other shades to carry out a general idea of harmony. If the upholstering of the furni ture, the carpets, or thc portieres were to (urn another color the harmony would be destroyed. So it may be destroyed through lack of knowledge on the part of thc architect. Were you to ask the question, 'I desire to finish my front parlor in one kind of. wood, my back parlor in another, thc reception-hall in another, my library in another; now as these rooms are practically one, what woods shall I use in order that the harmony may be preserved after the house shall have been in use for years?' I am fearful you would fail to find an architect who could answer it. Architects pay little attention to these vital points, which are really most intimately connected with their business—An fact,. are and should be regarded as a part of their business. I am not aware that an architectural journal has given a line to this subject, and the furniture papers are equally dumb." The above criticism could not be fairly applied to Canadian architects, the majority of whom have at least a fairly satisfactory acquaintance with the different varieties of wood. That this acquaintance might with advantage be improved is, however, not to be disputed, and it is also a fact that in no other country can the knowledge be more easily acquired. in this connection we would express the hope that the valuable series of tests of native building stones conducted last year at the School of Practical Science, Toronto, under the direction of a committee appointed by the 0. A. A., will in the near future be supplemented by a series of tests under similar conditions, of native woods.

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF  ARCHITECTS " author="">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF  ARCHITECTS.

The annual meeting of the above Association will be held in the Legislative buildings, city of Quebec, on Thursday, the 28th inst. There will be held both forenoon and afternoon sessions. one of the principal subjects for discussion will probably be the tariff of charges which the Association has asked the legislature to authorize. It is expected that papers will be read by Quebec and Montreal members of the Association' In the evening the annual Association dinner will be held at the Florence Hotel, invitations to which have been extended to members of the Quebec Government, the Rector of Laval University, thc Mayor of Quebec, officers of the Ontario Association of Architects, and representatives of the press.



Mr. Thos. Beatty, a respected member of the Toronto Builders' Exchange, died at his residence in Toronto a fortnight ago. The members of the Exchange in a body attended the funeral.

