<doctype type="text">

<article title=" QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS " author="">

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Readers are invited to ask through this department for any information which they may require on lines consistent with the objects of the paper. Every effort will be made to furnish satisfactory answers to all such inquiries. Readers are requested to supply information which would assist its in our replies. The names and addresses f correspondents must accompany their communications, but not necessarily for publication ]





A Nova Scotia subscriber "H. E. G.," writes Can you give me the name of the Professor in Architecture in the School of Practical Science, Toronto. I desire to apply ft)r particulars regarding tuition etc.

Ans.—-Address Mr. C. H. C. Wright, Lecturer in Architecture, School of Practical Science, Toronto.

<article title=" THE DORIC ORDER " author="">

THE DORIC ORDER.



IN the Doric order, the number of channels is either sixteen or twenty,—afterwards increased in the other orders to twenty-four; for they are invariably of an even number, capable of being divided by four so that there shall always be a center flute on each side of the column, that is, in a line with the middle of each side of the abacus. Done flutings are much broader and shallower than those of the Ionic or Corinthian orders ; broader ft)r two reasons,—first because they are fewer in number ; and secondly, because there are no file/s or plain spaces left between them on the surface of the shaft. Their proportionately much greater shallowness, again, may be accounted for equally well; were the channels deeper not only would they seem to cut into the shaft too much, and weaken it, but also produce much too strong shadows and another inconvenience would be occasioned, for the arises or ridges between the channels would become very sharp and thin, and liable to be injured. The mode of fluting Doric columns with more arises between the channels instead of fillets, has been retained by the moderns as characteristic of the order; but, as the order has been treated by them, it is little better than a mere distinction, with very little regard to general character. In the original Doric, almost every part is marked by breadth or by flatness, or by sharpness. There are no curved moldings or surfaces, except the cymatium of the cornice and the echinus of the capital, which last is generally kept exceedingly flat. The breadth and shallowness of the channels, and the flat curves in which they commence and terminate are therefore in perfect keeping with the style in other respects: so also are the sharp arises or ridges between the channels or flutings on the surface of the shaft, they being expressive of a severe simplicity. The same remark applies to the horizontal annular narrower channels or more incision immediately beneath the echinus of the capital, and lower down, which last are just the reverse of the projecting astragal or convex moldings given to the Done capital by the moderns. Why such horizontal channels or grooves should have been cut in the very thinnest and weakest part of the column, where they diminish instead of adding to strength, it is not easy to say, except that they were merely for the sake of effect,-—of producing shadow, and increasing the proportions of the capital to which they belong. We leave others, should any be so disposed, to object that the lowermost groove or grooves, as the case may be, give the capital the appearance of being a separate piece, merely joined on to the shaft, without such joining being concealed. Looking at it differently, we will rather say that such groove is intended to mark to the eye the commencement of the capital, the proportion above it of the shaft being thereby converted into the hypotrachelium or necking of the capital itself, which is thus enlarged in appearance, without being actually in-creased, and rendered unduly heavy. It is not, however, every example of the order that has such necking ; while in some the groove separating the capital from the shaft is diminished to a mere line,—which looks like a joining not intended to show itself,

-—in others it is omitted altogether. With respect to the echinus we have little more to remark than that its office—which it performs admirably,— is by expanding out, to connect the diminished upper end of the column with the overhanging abacus; and the former being circular and the latter square, but adapted to each other in size, a beautiful combination is produced of a circle inscribed within a square; and the result is variety, contrast, and harmony. In its profile or section by which latter term is understood the contour of any molding or other member- it is usually very flat, little more titan a portion of a cone 'turned downwards), with scarcely any perceptible degree of

convexity, except just beneath the abacus, where it is suddenly rounded and diminished, so that the abacus does not seem to press upon or compress it too much. Granite Cutter's Journal.

<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect And BUILDER.)



The Building Inspector for the city of Montreal is a most efficient officer, and might well be taken as an example by the inspectors in other Canadian cities. Scarcely a week passes in which he does not figure as the prosecutor of persons who violate the city building ordinance. He has just entered actions against a number of individuals and corporations for having neglected to take out permits for new buildings. I have noticed by the Architect AND BUILDER that the by-laws of Toronto, Hamilton and other cities, are not complied with in this respect, and that no determined effort on the part of the Inspectors appears to be made to enforce the law. Building laws, like laws of other kinds, are valueless if not enforced.

The contractors for public works have been complaining for some time past of the scarcity of workmen, and in some cases have sent into the country to endeavor to secure laborers. Notwithstanding this condition of affairs, the local unions have petitioned the Council against allowing the employment of outside workmen. Such a dog in the manger spirit deserves no encouragement 

A petition is being largely signed by the citizens for presentation to the City Council asking that the Chateau de Ramezay opposite the City Hall be purchased by the city and used as a public library and museum. The petition states that the Chateau is one of the few remaining buildings of the old regime, and by reason of its historic importance as a monument of old Ville Marie, should be preserved.

Several actions at law have arisen out of the construction t)f a large chimney for the Royal Electric Company. The design for the chimney was prepared by Mr. McLea Walbank, architect. Mr. Alex. Wand was the contractor for the work. Owing as it is alleged for defects having been discovered subsequent to completion, a potion of the chimney was torn down and rebuilt. For this purpose it is said the plans were modified. Mr. Wand brought an action for the value of his work, but the case was dismissed. Now the company has brought suit for the cost of demolition and reconstruction of the chimney on the new plans ; and Mr. Wand is suing the architect, on the ground that the loss and damage were not caused through any fault of the workmanship, but through defective plans.

From the twenty-five designs submitted by artists for the statue to be erected on Dominion Square to the memory of the late Right Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald, the Design Committee acting with the advice of experts, have chosen that of Mr. Geo. E. Wade, the well known London sculptor. The statue will cost $20,000, and is to be ready to be unveiled during the autumn of

1894.

Messrs. Vanier & Keefer, the engineers appointed to report on the means which should be adopted to improve the efficiency of the Montreal city water works, has recommended the expenditure of $100,000 in new plant and improvements, including a 10,000,000 gallon pumping engine and a new engine for the high level service.





OTTAWA.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



The total expenditure on the erection of new buildings and on improvements to existing buildings in this city during the last year is stated at $350,000. This is about equal to the amount expended in 1892, and considerably less than in some previous years. In view of the scarcity of dwellings of moderate size and the high rentals which owing to this fact must be paid by those who are not fortunate enough to own their own houses, a good opportunity appears to exist for builders to make money by erecting a number of dwellings of the class mentioned. Enquiry reveals the fact that rents are very much higher in Ottawa than in Toronto.

While writing on this subject I may also refer to the excessive water rate which is imposed in this city. I was recently informed by a gentleman residing here, and who is the owner of property in Toronto, that the cost of water in Ottawa is more than double what it is in Toronto. It is difficult to understand why this should be the case, seeing that in this city there is no expensive pumping plant to be maintained, such as exists in Tom-onto. It would seem that large profits are being derived from the sale of water, and are applied to pay the expense of other departments of the public. service. If so, the principle is a wrong one, and the citizens should insist on each department being maintained on a distinct footing.





Building operations at Stratford, Ont., during the present year are said to be 50 per cent. in excess of 1892.

