<doctype type="text">September, 1893	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	95

<article title=" TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

	TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS OF ARCHITECTS.

WHAT to specify is a question that often gives rise to some hesitation in the minds of many architects. They can design with tolerable completeness in the main structure, its general accommodation, the plan of its floors ; but when the fittings and details have to be considered, the extent of the architect's knowledge is reached. The rest is technical and precise; it is thought to have no connections with, or relation to the design. Many in the profession think that their proper and legitimate work is accomplished when they have prepared the design, and that they have nothing to do with questions of heating, lighting, or ventilation what kind of appliances and fittings are to be provided and fixed. If we should ever come to view the art in this light, we should be ignoring completely all opportunities of making architecture commensurate with the progress of science and the development of our industries. This view of restricting thc building art would be to keep architecture back, and to prevent her from controlling and molding the agencies which affect our civilization and material wants. If art is really to direct the fashioning of our commonest objects, of our chairs and tables, and to permeate the everyday objects of our domestic life, it is the true office of architecture to bring everything that contributes to the convenience and comfort of our buildings under her influence. The radiator, the heating stove, the electrolier, the gasolier, the ventilating inlet and outlet, even those appliances by which we perform the commonest functions of life or of trade, fall rightly under its influence. If we think aright, what has been called the "hierarchy" of art implies a descending scale. The modes of classification adopted, such as that which makes Architecture, Sculpture, and Painting the primary trinity, have apparently excluded the useful arts. These three primary arts represent an ascendancy of thought and feeling from the structure raised by the architect to the more idealized and ethereal productions of the sculptor and painter; the material yields to the spiritual. But does not architecture represent more than the mere outside shell of the building? Does it not descend to every fitting and contrivance which finds a place in the building? We have too long set a limit to architecture, and we have not considered that it commences at the very beginning of the conversion of the raw materials, and also includes everything besides floors and walls, doors and windows.

These thoughts are necessary to help us to see the universality of the art of the architect that his work is wider and deeper than that of making an embellished building of brick or stone, and then leaving it to be finished and made convenient, or comfortable, or healthy by the fitter or engineer. Specification ought to imply selection. What to select is as important a question to the architect as how to design because the exercise of his knowledge and taste may be, and is often, quite as much called into requisition by one as the other. For example, in looking over an illustrated catalogue, or the stock of goods in a showroom of an ironmonger, the architect has to call into exercise many of those very faculties he uses in designing the given article. If it is a drawing-room stove, he has to look to see whether the construction is likely to be economical in the use of fuel, whether the firebrick back is of good form for radiating the heat, and the opening for smoke shaped so as to avoid eddying currents and smokiness. He chooses the one which he thinks will be the best; he will avoid the more ornamental patterns, or those which are unnecessarily showy with cast ornament tiles and brasswork. But if the stove is merely specified in the usual terms, and the selection is left to the employer or to the builder—a mode often adopted—a very different result follows. Probably the most showy and the least efficient as a fuel economizer and heat radiator will be selected. To specify and not to select is an imperfect procedure, calculated to bring discredit on the architect, while it only gives temporary pleasure to the employer. In matters requiring scientific knowledge, the architect's opinion may be asked- say, for example, a heating apparatus, or a ventilating exhaust; but in artistic things, like ornamental gas-fittings or tessellated paving, the selection is often left to the client, who thinks himself quite as good a judge in matters of taste. The provisional sum inserted in specifications has at least the effect of preventing a contractor supplying inferior articles. An amount may be provided for a mantel piece or any decorative work, but unless the architect has a voice in the design, even this mode of provision may be rendered of little value. Most

specifications are two discursive and inexplicit, and architects unfortunately attach little importance to inventions and appliances, imagining that it is not their principal business. The great evil of this indifference to fittings and details is that the makers cater to please the public taste, for if there is no one to select and examine that knows something about the matter, they have no encouragement to make valuable improvements, or to expend capital in the production of artistic designs.

Three principal classes of goods comes under the notice of the architect in specifying. The first are the structural requirements and materials, in which we may include inventions to prevent the rising of damp in walls, damp-proof courses, materials for building walls, floors of fireproof constriction, window-sashes, iron work; a second class comprehends the various internal fittings of buildings, like sanitary, gas, electric-light fittings, heating and ventilating appliances; and the third class artistic and decorative details.

Certain principles of specification are necessary to be observed:

(1)	An architect must know what he wants for if he does not, he is likely to be contented with anything that first offers itself to his mind. Many of those who write specifications depend on illustrated trade catalogues for their information ; they select a certain article or pattern, and name it in the specification, because they have not made up their minds, or do not know exactly what they require. If, for example, an architect is carrying out baths and warehouses, he should know what kinds of private baths to specify---whether porcelain baths with glazed rims, whether cased, what hot and cold water fittings, what apparatus for shower or spray is to be fixed, what other necessary fittings like electric bells, foot grid, wall lining, coat and hat pegs, and mirror—are to be provided. What he wants can only, therefore, be answered by a knowledge of the requirements of baths, and surely this it worth finding out before referring to a trade catalogue. In warming and ventilating it is absolutely necessary to find out the conditions of the building, how it is affected by cold winds, by cold surfaces such as glass, and to find out what proportion the heating surface must bear to the cubic feet of air necessary to be warmed. To specify without such knowledge is to leave all in the hands of the engineer or contractor, who may be tempted to take a very inadequate estimate of the requirements. (2) How to obtain it. The name of a firm is often a sufficient guarantee of skill and good workmanship. The architect may adequately supply his own deficiency by naming firms of repute to execute these works. The "approved apparatus" of the contract is often left to someone who has no reputation, and no one is responsible for its efficiency. But by naming any one of the firms which are known to do satisfactory work, the architect obtains at least competent experience and the guarantee of a responsible name. There are a few ways open to the architect. One of the best is to consult the pages of a respectable professional journal, where he may find lists of makers and vendors of building specialties. Our own Directory of the Building Trades may be of value. The larger firms whose special branches have a wide repute take care to draw attention to any improvements of manufacture or new appliances which they bring out, and the architect of to-day, if be desires to keep himself "up to date" with materials or improved systems, will find it necessary to make himself acquainted with them, or the catalogues and descriptive literature of well-known firms. Technological museums are another means by which the profession and the tradesman can be brought to know each other's wants. An instance of a sanitary museum equipped with appliances for the instruction of builders we lately noticed instituted by the Hornsey Local Board. Attached to it is a library and testing. room. The builders' "Exchange," so common in America, is a means of mutual benefit; and in connection with our technical schools and architectural schools, as that of King's College, a start has been made to collect typical specimens of manufactures and fittings, though very incomplete at present. The way of all others the most practical is to visit buildings and establishments where systems and goods have been produced, and to obtain experimental evidence of the actual working and effect. Firms of manufacturers often give the profession and Press opportunities of seeing for themselves the operation of improved appliances, though there is naturally a limit to this, as it is not always convenient to inspect public and private establishments in working order. These are some of the ways by which the practitioner may learn the value of specialties. In the artistic class he is more free, not being hampered by technical points and want of experience. What and how to specify is not the least onerous and responsible of the architect's duties, for it implies a wide knowledge of details, and a general acquaintance with the principles of science, more especially of hygiene, pneumatics, heat, and the laws of light and sound.- Building News.

