<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



after plans drawn by American architects, who appreciating the superiority of yellow pine as bearing joist specify that kind of stuff." Those who have interested themselves in lumber matters are aware that an effort has been made to create a market in the eastern states for the yellow pine of the south, and bring it into competition with white pine, a large part of which now goes to these states from Canada. To only a small extent, however, has this wood been successful as a rival to white pine, except for some common uses, where price was a consideration. Knowing these conditions it seems clear to the Bystander that yellow pine, when used in Canada, has not found any large place here on its merits, but simply, as this American journal has suggested, because American architects have designed plans for the buildings where such pine is used, and have not lost an opportunity to promote the interests of a wood grown in their own country. The injustice to Canada of giving the work of designing public buildings to foreign architects does not, therefore, come home only to the Canadian architect, but as it seems here to other interests in the country as well. It would be taking a narrow view of conditions to say that the interests of any concern, or of the public, should be sacrificed by refusing to place in outside hands work that could not be done at home. But with the high standing of the profession in Canada, and their work is before everyone to testify to the fact, is it not disloyalty to our country and people to seek talent abroad for the designing of any of our buildings, public or private?



 x



Looking around the ether day among the new buildings in the business part (If Toronto the Bystander met Mr. Henry Langley, of Langley & Langley, in the store of John Catto & Co., which is being constructed under his direction. Mr. Langley was engaged just then in inspecting a case of terra cotta brick. Architects and builders have evinced more than average interest in the terra cotta used in the construction of the Catto building. It is made by the Rathbun Co. Taking a cursory glance at the front of the building one might notice that it bears an embossed appearance. The bricks are combed, Mr. Langley says, and afterwards cut to proper size, giving a very tasty effect. The Bystander had heard some complaint of the quality of this terra cotta. "The trouble has been,' said Mr. Langley, "things were rushed too much at the outset, and the plant of the Rathbun Co. overtaxed. As a result some of the terra cotta was not burned sufficiently." A feature of the bricks which attracts attention is the small oblong shape. So far no large quantity has been used in building construction in Toronto. in Buffalo and other American cities this brick is used largely, the first lot, it is said, being imported from Scotland. Its introduction here may be taken, perhaps, as a movement to get away from the staid routine that is often a serious fault in the construction of buildings, both for public and private purposes, in all our cities.



xxxx



The work of brick-making in Canada has grown apace since the early inhabitants of Babylonia found on the plain in the land of Shinar clay for their construction, and "said one to another, Go to, let us make brick and burn them thoroughly, and they had brick for stone and slime had they for mortar." The reference in another paragraph to the class of brick that has been used in the construction of the new store of John Catto & Co., is an illustration of Canadian progress in brick-making. Said Secretary Phillips, of the Builders' Exchange, a few days since "Really commendable and substantial progress in brick-making has been made in Canada within the past few years. One does not need to go far back in memory to talk of bricks at $40 a thousand. To-day we are getting a good pressed brick for $16. Brick-making has become a very thorough study with some of our manufacturers. I do not know just what amount of money, for example, Taylor Bros. have expended in experiments in order to teach the high degree of perfection that is shown in their pressed bricks, but the sum has been considerable. And what has occurred with them has had a parallel, in a measure, with the Rathbun Co. and other manufacturers. Despite a duty of 25anadian brick-makers have been able to send into the United States large quantities of their bricks." Methought these were complimentary words for Canadian brick-makers. They furnish proof that thoroughness and a determination to reach as nearly to perfect on as possible are elements certain to achieve

success. Brick making is an industry full of large possibilities.



The By stander has been asked as to the resisting power of fire bricks. An authority on the question says that fire bricks will resist a crushing force of from 600 up to 3,000 pounds per square inch.



AN INTERESTING ARBITRATION.

<article title=" AN INTERESTING ARBITRATION " author="">

AN important arbitration has recently been concluded between the corporation of the City of Moncton, N. B., and the Moncton Gas, Light and Water Co., to determine the amount which the city should pay the company, in consideration of the transfer of the company's property to the corporation.

In 1878, the company were given a charter by the provincial government to construct works and supply water and light to the city, on such terms as could be agreed upon between the company and city, for a period of ten years. The necessary works were constructed, Mr. E. H. Keating, the present City Engineer of Toronto, and the late Mr. Gilbert Murdoch, of St. John, acting as consulting engineers on the work. The works were extended from time to time afterwards, an electric lighting plant being added in i888. Terms were agreed upon between the city and the company, and after the expiration often years, the period of the contract, a renewal contract for a further period of five years was arranged. This renewal contract expired in the early part of 1893. Dissatisfaction was expressed by the city with the character of the service performed by the company under the contract, in consequence of which the city announced its intention to own and operate its own water and light plant, and made an offer of $180,000 for the company's property. This offer being declined, the city made application to the legislature for a special act to authorize them to construct the necessary works for the supply of water and light. This application the legislature refused, but as a compromise, authorized the expropriation of the existing works at a price to be fixed by arbitration.

Mr. Robt. Surtees, City Engineer of Ottawa, was chosen as arbitrator on behalf of the city, Mr. Walter Shanly, C. E., of Montreal, for the company; Mr. F. T. Holt, C. E., of St. Stephen, N. B., being appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor-Council, as third arbitrator. The legal counsel for the city were: B. M. Britton, Kingston, ()nt., lion. H. R. Emerson, Commissioner of Public Works, H. A. Powell, M.P.P. and Mr.

B.	Chandler, of New Brunswick. The company were represented by Hon. A. G. Blair, Attorney-General of the province, A. A. Stockton, M.P.P., C. W. Weldon, Q.C., R. A. Borden.

The engineering expert for the city was Mr. Willis Chipman, of Toronto, who was assisted by Mr. John McCready, City Engineer, and Mr. J. J. Taylor, of Moncton. For the company—

M.	M. Tidd, C. E., of Boston, Mass., their permanent engineer, John Edington, and Mr. Croasdale, of Moncton.

The arbitration opened the latter part of August. The taking of evidence occupied three weeks. The case hinged largely upon the interpretation of a single word. The Act under which the arbitration was held, declared that "The arbitrators shall proceed to determine the compensation to be paid." The important word was "compensation." The company claimed that the compensation should be based on the net earning power of the plant, capitalized at 4 per cent., with an allowance for prospective profits for the next ten years. The average net earnings of the company for the last six years were shown to have been $24,000 per year, and calculated on this basis, the valuation placed upon the property by the company was $8oo,ooo. The company's construction account showed amount expended to have been $28 1,000. The total cash paid for stock was shown to have been $116,000; stock paid out of earnings was $100,000; making total stock issue $216,000, to which must be added $60,000 bonds.

The city contended that they should not pay more for the works than would be required to construct new works, less depreciation. Mr. Chipman estimated the cost of new works at $137,500 for water works and $74,000 for lighting—a total of

$21 .500. This estimate did not include some lands of the company, on certain streams not in use, which would bring the total up to $225,000. The depreciation was estimated at $ 17,500, which deducted, left the total estimate $208,000.

The award of the arbitrators, which is signed by Messrs. Surtees and Holt only, gives the company $263,000 for the water works, and $78,000 for the lighting system— a total of

$343,000.



The water committee of the City Council, in their report on the case, bestow credit on the legal counsel, and on Mr. Chip-man, the engineering expert, for the ability with which they handled the city's case.

