<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



seems well adapted for monumental work, pillars. etc. It exists in area of many square miles.

Front Kingston, Ont.— Block (red) 6x 10 x 61/2 inches, dressed and polished; round column (red) 7 inches high and 5 inches in diameter: seven-inch cube (red) dressed and polished; tapering pillar (red) 22 inches high and 6 inches square at base, polished.

<person>W. C. Caldwell</person>, <person>M. P. P., Linark</person>—Two large blocks, dressed; polished on one side. The location in Renfrew County, from which these specimens were taken is an extensive one. The quality and color of the stone are excellent. Mr. Caldwell also showed small polished specimens from various localities in the Counties of Frontenac and Lanark; small specimens, illustrative of various localities in Ontario, from Lake Huron to the Ottawa Valley, and a large block (red) dressed and polished on one side, from the north shore of Like Huron.

The following exhibits were included in the collection of the Dominion Geological Survey —

<person>R. Forsyth</person>, Montreal—Cube of granite—From Beebe Plain, Sianstead, Q —Granite occurs in abundance in Barnston, Stansicad, and elsewhere in the

Eastern Townships of the Province of Quebec. In the last-named township it occupies an area of six square miles. The granite is composed of while quartz, white felspar, and black mica, and lakes a fine polish. It is easily worked, and in many localities can be obtained in blocks of any required size. The new Eastern Townships Bank at Sherbrooke is built of it, and it was used many years ago for bridges on the St. Lawrence and Atlantic Railway. Mr. Forsyth also exhibited a 6 inch cube dressed, and a small column, dressed, from quarries at Birch Cove, Halifax, Nova Scotia,

<firm>Milne. Coutts & Co</firm>., St. George, N. B.—Reil granite, polished.

lIon. <person>John Young</person>, Montreal—Specimens of salmon-red syenite, from the east side of the harbor of Kingston, The rock is exposed for a length of more than a quarter of a mite, with a breadth of upwards of son yards, and has a face of ninety feet, overlooking the harbor. It dresses easily and takes a fine polish.

<firm>Bay of Fundy Red Granite Co</firm>—A monument of red syenite polished, three feet two inches square at the base, and fifteen feet high, Value $1000; four head-stones polished; two urns; from quarries at St. George, Charlotte County, C. B.

MARBLE.



The following exhibits, formed part of the Ontario Government collection. In every case except that of Renfrew marbles, the specimens were obtained from surface deposits. At Madoc and Hungerford a little has bees done by way of development, but not enough to test fully the qualities of the deposits —<person>Jason. E. Harrison</person>, Bridgewater, Oat—White dressed and polished specimens and a grey and white banded six-inch cube, dressed; white column and base; specimens of grey marble.

<person>J. Smith &- Co</person>.. Sydenlism, Ont.—Small blocks of pale green clouded and pinkish white, half dressed and polished on one side ; and a grey banded block 61/2 inches, polished.

<person>C. P. Brown</person>, Sault Ste. Marie.—Small rough specimen of green elnuiled, front Echo Lake, Thunder Bay.

Front 20 miles west of Wolfe River Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway. 'Thunder Bay District, a small block, black and grey, 51/4 x 53/4 x 3 inches, polished—It occurs plentifully as a horizontal bed about twenty feet thick, interstratified with indurated red marble, and with marble of other colors. This is beautifully variegated marble that might be effectively utilized for mantels and other indoor work. From the same locality was shown a small slab 6 x 13 x 1 inch, tight purple, veined with greenish grey and brown.

From west of Nipigon Station, a slab 21 x 91/2 inches, polished, of so-called Nipigon marble—Plentiful on line of Canadian Pacific Railway, close to Nipigon Bay. Approaching argillite in composition ; does not take a high polish.

Collections of Marbles front Nipigon series, Wolfe Lake, Thunder Bay District.—-This handsome collection of polished cubes, varying in size from two to six inches, represents material said to exist in considerable quantities. Though not susceptible to high polish, they are rich in color, the tints varying from a mellow grey, through deeper shades to light pinks, purples, greens, and browns. Some are banded, some clouded, and others veined. For mantles, panels, mosaics, and interior work of various kinds, they produce a good effect. In quality they are too argillaceous to be classed as true marbles.

The following exhibits from Madoc, Ont., were made by Mr. <person>P. W. Ellis</person>, Toronto. for the <firm>Hungerford Marble Co</firm>..—Small block. black. 6 x 6 x31/2 inches; paper weight, black. 31/2 x 4 x 1 inch; paper weight, black, with white streaks, 31/2 x 3 x 1 inch; turned paper weight, pink; turned paper weight. grey, dark mottled ; turned pillar cap, grey, dark veined, 53 inches high slab, white, for table top 20 x 24 inches; white, turned pillar, 14 inches high; white card receiver; pillar, black. 6 feet 6 tidies high ; white block, 8 x 9 x 91/2 inches, dressed and polished; white, so melt cube dressed and polished.

<firm>Crescent Gold Mining Co</firm>., Malone, Oct—White slab, 75x30 inches, reported to possess excellent working qualities.

The following specimens were obtained front the Sanford property, township of Barrie, County of Frontenac —Pink of rich tint, small pillar 53 inches high ; pink, block 61/2 x 6 x 5 pink,

slab 12 x 3 inches ; white slab 13 1/2 x 141/2 inches white turned pillar 17 inches high and 5 inches in diameter ; grey, with brown veins, pillar 14 inches high and 4 inches diameter; white slab 101/2 x 151/2 inches ; grey, light clouded, slab 101/2 x 15 1/2 inches dressed and polished; pinkish white with dark grey veins, slab 10 x 111/2 inches, dressed and polished; white, with brown veins, small pillar 14 1/2 inches high, 4 3/4 inches diameter, dressed and polished white. with brown veins, 9x 11 1/2 x 2 inches, dressed and polished ; white, with brown veins, 6 inch slab, dressed and polished ; white 6 inch cube, dressed and polished ; grey, small block 6 x 6 x 5 inches, dressed and polished grey, small block 5x 5x 5x 4 inches. dressed and polished greyish white, with dark grey veins, dressed and polished.

The following exhibits were included in the collection of the Dominion Government Survey —From Mount Mark, near Home Lake. Vancouver Island.—Short column

and pedestal of marble,—The crystalline limestones of Mount Mark occur in very thick beds, interstratified with diorite. They are capable of affording a great variety of marbles suitable for ornamental purposes, though not fine enough for statuary. White, dove-gray, and bluish tints are the most common ; but some varieties contain reddish and greenish bands, Large blocks, entirely free front flaws, could be easily obtained,

From Arnprior. Ont. Marble, striped, light and grey.

From Gloucester, Ont.—Brownish grey specimens,

Grenville, Que.—Yellowish-white.

Point Claire—Brownish black and greenish black specimens—in the township of Grenville asd its augmentation, a band of crystalline limestone, containing Eozoon Canadense. has an extensive run through the country, rind affords in many cases a peculiar variety of marble, having a white ground marked with small green spots of serpentine, which occasionally

forms angutar masses several inches in diameter, The serpentine usually runs in bands marking the stratification of the rock. These bands, as in the case of the Arnprior marble, are sometimes even, and at other times corrugated, giving diversities of pattern. Sometimes the serpentine, instead of green, is sulphur yellow, as in the specimen from Grenville, In many parts of the country, the Laurentian limestones are tolerably free from foreign minerals, and give white marbles, These, however, arc usually too coarse-grained for statuary purposes, and sometimes they are barred with slightly different colours, Such is the case with the crystalline limestone occurring in the township of Elzevir. Many years ago, a mill for cutting and polishing marble was erected on the Caluntet, but the demand for the marble was not sufficient to make the enterprise profitable.

L'Original, Ont.—Grey marble with thickly disseminated white spots Dark gray marble, with inure thickly disseminated white spots—The bed from which the specimen (a) is taken, varies in thickness from three to six inches ; it is near the surface. and easily quarried, but has hitherto been but little used, The locality is a quarter of a mile from the south bank of the Ottawa, four miles west of L'Original village, and sixty-four above Montreal, The white spots are caused by small bivalve shells (Atrypa  plena) filled with cale-spar. Of the darker variety (b) there are two beds, of six inches and one foot respectively near the surface. and overlying the previous bed (a). Blocks large enough for chimney-pieces and tables are readily oh. tamed.

<person>Jason Worthington & Co</person>.—Montreal, specimen of grey marble.

From Montreal, Que.—Specimens of grey marble front the Trenton and Chazy formations,

From St. Dominique, Que.—Specimens of dove grey and dove grey with white spots.

Front St. Armand, Que.—Specimens of white, white clouded with pale green, and dove grey marked with white and black. The material, which takes a high polish, occurs in great abundance in the vicinity of Phillipsburg on Lake Champlain.—About a mile and a half south eastward from Phillipsburg there occurs a black marble. similar to this specimen. The beds dip to the eastward at an angle of about twelve degrees ; a quarry was many years ago opened on one of them, which has a considerable thickness. The stone was exported in the United States, and much esteemed in New York, but the opening of quarries of black marble at Glen's Falls, where there is good seater power, interfered with the demand, and caused the enterprise to be abandoned,

From Caughnawaga, Que.—Specimens of grey and grey with red spots—Similar grey marbles with red spots (generally corals), occur in the same formation as the rock of Caughnawaga, behind the city of Montreal, and on Isle Bizard, In all of these localities the rock is filled with fossils, which are plainly seen on the polished surfaces.

From Dudswell, Que.—Specimens of cream white, striped with yellow dark grey and yellowish fawn yellow and white—The specimens exhibited of cream white and yellow, and dark grey and yellow, are front beds that overlie one another. The yellow streaks in both of these marbles are cost-posed of dolomite, while the light ground of the one, and the dark ground of the other, are of carbonate of lime. When the dark grey approaches black. which it sometimes does and the yellow streaks are narrow, the marble bears a strong resemblance to the Porter marble from Northern Italy, sometimes known as black and gold. On analysis, the resemblance between the two is further sustained by the fact, that in both cases the ground is a pure limestone, and the yellow veins are dolomite.

From Esquimaux Island, Mingan group—Specimens of drab marble.— This drab coloured marble occurs in great quantity on Esquimaux Island, of the Mingan group. where the stone might be easily loaded on board of small vessels. It cuts with great facility, and takes a uniform polish.

From St. Lin, Que.—Polished slab of red marble—At St. Lin about thirty miles front Montreal. there are massive beds of limestone, portions of which are of a red colour, and afford a good marble.

From St. Joseph, Beauce. Que.—Polished slab of red marble veined with white—This handsome marble occurs near the River Guillaume. associated with red shales and sandstones, resembling thrice of Suilery. near Quebec, The bed is from ten to forty feet thick, an din a distance of half a mile on its strike is exposed in four places. The marble takes a fair polish, and could be obtained in large blocks. The locality in forty-five miles south of Quebec.

From Hull, Que. —Polished slabs. spotted green and white.

From Arnprior, Ont—Polished stab and ten inch cube of marble striped. light rind dark grey.—Near the mouth of the Mailawaska, in the township of McNab, a large band of crystalline limestone is exposed. The rock contains dark bands, which are sometimes narrow and sometimes wide, producing. where there are no corrugations in the layers. a regularly bat-red or striped pattern. The colours are various shades of light and dark grey intermingled with white, The dark colours are due to a greater or less amount of graphite, which is intimately mixed with the limestone, The texture of the stone is somewhat coarse, but it takes a good polish. Considerable quantities were employed in the decorative work of the Houses of Parliament at Ottawa.

From Horton Ont.—Polished slab of grey crystalline marble—This stone has been largely employed for monuments. Blocks front a few inches to several feet thick can be easily obtained.

From Texada Island, Strait of Georgia, B. C. —Polished slab of grey marble with black spots and veins; polished slab of greyish-white marble with brownish veins. —A quarry has been worked to some extent on the shore of Mataspina Strait near the north end of the island. Marbles like those exhibited form low cliffs along the shore for several miles.

NOTES,



In the N. B. Section were shown some handsome granite monuments, exhibited by Messrs. <firm>Epps, Dodds & Co.,</firm> <firm>Mine Coutts & Co</firm>.. St. George; <firm>Tate Meeting & Co</firm>.. St. George, also exhibited polished granite,

One large block of sandstone, dressed, was shown by <person>C. E. Fish</person>, Newcastle, N. B,

In the Nova Scotia section was a collection of dressed cubes of sandstone and granite exhibited by the Government of Nova Scotia.

Time North West Territories supplied some dressed cubes of sandstone, exhibited by <person>Leonard Gaetz</person>, Red Deer River, <person>J. G. McCallum</person>, Calgary, <person>A. McKay</person>, Indian Head,

In the Quebec Court were some dressed cubes of granite. gociss and limestone from different places in the province exceptionally fine limestone from Bryson and Dudswell was also shown. the latter constituting a very handsome marble.

<firm>The Ness Rockland Slate Co</firm>., Rockland, Que., exhibited a large block of slate, together with manufactured articles. such as sinks, wash-troughs, blackboards, roofing slates. etc.





When papering on white-washed walls it is necessary to first size the surface. Use good glue size and add a pint of malt vinegar to the gallon of the size. The vinegar acts upon the whiting and causes the paper to adhere strongly and permanently.

