<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



<article title=" NOTES FROM ST. JOHNS, N. F." author="">NOTES FROM ST. JOHNS, N. F.





AS everyone knows, the city of St. John's has unfortunately suffered from two large conflagrations that of 1846, however, was not so disastrous as the recent one, which broke out after six weeks drought when everything was dry as tinder owing to this and the high winds then raging, it soon got beyond control, and before night the whole of the eastern and central portions of the city was in flames. It must have been a magnificent sight, harmonizing well with the rugged grandeur of its surroundings, and enough even to satisfy the ultra-aesthetic cravings of a hero.

The loss was very great ; all the principal public buildings were destroyed, as also were the leading wholesale and retail houses and the better class of residences. Except on the main thoroughfare, Water street, where it has been a necessity since the fire of 1846 to build in some incombustible material, there were very few brick or stone buildings. This fact explains to a certain extent the fire getting so great a hold on the city.

From an architectural point of view the most unfortunate occurrence was the burning of the Church of England Cathedral. This, said to be the finest specimen of Gothic on this side the Atlantic, was one of the masterpieces of the late Sir Gilbert Scott. It was designed in the style of the Early English period of Gothic and even in its ruined condition, one can see how successfully the designer mastered his problem. The effect is obtained more by perfect proportions and careful massing of the parts than any elaborateness in detail—resulting in a noble piece of architecture.

The nave was started as far back as 184—---, but the chancel and transepts were only completed a few years before the fire. Even then the building was not finished, as it still lacked the upper portion of the large central tower. Some are sanguine that it will yet be finished, but it is to be feared that many years must pass before this consummation. Only the outside walls of the nave are left standing, the whole of the stone arcading being a mass of ruins. The chancel and transepts, although badly damaged, did not suffer so much as the nave, and these portions of the cathedral are being restored to be used by the congregation till funds permit of the whole building being finished.

It is both surprising and refreshing to find such an architectural monument in this country of fog and ice, which one usually thinks of only in connection with cod fish and seals, and which during part of the year is surrounded by a small army of icebergs, looking like so many ghosts as they silently glide by. The unexpectedness of such a thing no doubt lends an additional charm, and the building, set off by a background of rugged picturesqueness, is a pleasing sight to the stranger.

For some time after the fire the burnt-out portions of the city presented a novel and curious spectacle—streets and streets of ruined houses, and in the majority of cases only heaps of rubbish to indicate ate what had once been. Here and there where had stood a number of frame buildings, one would come across a perfect forest of chimneys, standing stark and bare, some looking like grim pillars set up to commemorate the fiery scourge, and others, where two breasts had been brought into one stack, like great Gothic arches of a ruined cathedral.

Some very quaint bits were to be found ; indeed it needed very little sometimes when looking at a building with the electric light streaming through window openings and fissures, to imagine one's self back in the Old Country viewing some old castle or abbey by moonlight. The stunted and blackened piles of the wharves show to what an extent the fire went ; not only this, but the sidewalks were completely destroyed, as were also the fish flakes on the eastern side of the harbor where the cod fish used to he dried.

The burning of the cathedral was not only the unfortunate happening of the fire, but it was the most unexpected, for everyone considered it fireproof; this belief was really the cause of its destruction, as the interior was filled with furniture and goods by those whose homes were burning, and although the cathedral stands in an isolated position, the heat of the fire ultimately cracked the lead glazing, the sparks flying through the chaotic mass of household belongings stored therein, and before anything could be done the entire building was filled with furious flames, bursting out through the roof and licking the stone walls as if greedy that nothing should be left. This instance gives some idea of the fierceness of the fire and its unrelenting hold.

The city is built around the harbor—one of the finest in the world and rises picturesquely from the water's edge. When entering the "Narrows" one sees row upon row of horses, each one seeming to spring from that below. The view culminates in the two cathedrals, which stand like sentinels over the city, forming a fitting apex to the grouped up medley of walls and roofs. The extreme hilliness of the place renders building in some parts somewhat more difficult than ustial, nor is this the only obstacle, for the city is built on solid rock, which necessitates a great deal of blasting. On the harbor side of Water street, however, there is much made UI) ground, and here piling must be resorted to before anything can be clone. In one respect Water street when rebuilt will be much improved. Before the fire all or nearly all the buildings were finished with pitched roofs in such a way that the unfortunate pedestrian in winter often had to run for his life. This can still be witnessed in the old portion of the city. In the new buildings the roofs are

at nat, as they should De woen Drougot out to toe street tine in a climate like this.

Of all the new buildings put tip on Water street at present, not more than a dozen can lay claim to any architectural merit, for the jerry builder has been at work, and some awful looking piles of brick and mortal meet the eye. Where lie has attempted anything it is only a futile effort to copy sonse architect's design, with the usual result of poor detail, absurd proportions, and general incongruity.

There will be one part of St. Johns with a group of buildings worthy of any city, for within a stone's throw of the two cathedrals will be the <building>Church of England Synod </building>halls and schools with residences, the Presbyterian church, the Methodist college, the <building>Gower Street Methodist church</building>, the Congregational church, Presentation Convent<building>, the Christian Brothers' College</building>, the two Bishops' residences, and the <building>Anglican clergy house</building>. The locality, which might appropriately be called " The Architectural Square," is well-chosen, for the gently rising ground gives a pleasing relief and masses the buildings well one with another. The government and other public buildings in different parts of the city will certainly add to its architectural attractions, but beyond these and the buildings already mentioned there will not be anything that should be called architecture. There are a great many frame buildings springing- tip like mushrooms all over the place, having no particular merit but that of fulfilling their primary purpose of affording shelter from the elements.

St. John's has been a busy place during the past summer, and much has been done to obliterate traces of the fire. Even now, though, these are otily too apparent. There will be less building next season if one can judge from present indications, and after that, affairs will be pretty much in their normal condition.

C.	H. A. B.



<article title=" THE CENTRAL ONTARIO SCHOOL OF ART AND

INDUSTRIAL. DESIGN." author="">THE CENTRAL ONTARIO SCHOOL OF ART AND

INDUSTRIAL. DESIGN.

Architects should take an interest iii the progress of this school and it would be well for architectural students to attend some of its classes. The school is now in its fourth session and is steadily growing. The course is based upon study from the antique and from life as the means of highest training for eye and hand in preparation for design of all kinds. These classes, which are under the care of the best instructor procurable in Toronto, form the whole course for some students who are aiming merely at skill in drawing and painting. But the ultimate aim of the school is to form a centre of education in the arts of industrial design as well as in the graphic arts. On the board of directors are, besides artists and architects, several of these leading manufactures and producers of objects requiring design. Work in the precious metals, lithography and engraving, furniture, carpet weaving, stained glass and decoration are all represented on the board. An analysis of the students' register shows among the students lithographers, glass stainers, decorators, designers, carvers in wood and stone, cabinet makers, jewelers, painters and engravers. Efforts are continually being made to extend the usefulness of the school in the direction of teaching industrial design. The larger the school becomes the greater will be its power of enlarging this department. For this reason it is to be hoped that it will continue to increase and be such a centre of teaching in art as will realize its name to the frill. It is better to have one good school than many indifferent ones. Centralization of schools means concentration of the students' fees and power therefore to employ the best teachers. One teacher can handle many students, and there is a distinct gain to the art student in being one of a large number rather than one of a few. In into other class of work is the benefit of association with others so great. The students in the large ateliers of Paris derive as much benefit from their manner of working together as they do from the occasional visits of the great man under whose name they are associated. It would be a good thing for Toronto and for the country if this school can fostered so as to become a great central school of art with funds large enough to attract to its teaching staff men of the best class.

It is worth pointing out to architects that subscribers of $mo per annum are entitled to send one student to the evening classes. It may sometimes be worth while to invest this much in training a promising student who cannot himself afford to pay for instruction.



<article title=" PAINTING INTERIOR WOODWORK " author="">PAINTING INTERIOR WOODWORK.

Some people seem to think that as soon as wood is used inside a house, there arises a deadly sin against the proprieties if it be painted, and hence alt interior woodwork should be finished in its natural colour and grain. How can they reconcile the uncompromising hardness and coldness with which an unstained or unpainted piece of oak or white pine will obtrude itself into any scheme of decoration consisting of soft warm colours. It were far better to stain the wood in harmony with the generate decorative effect—not to imitate some other wood, be it understood, but to get the de suitable colour, for hartauny with its surroundings. But really there can tie no objection to goumi honest paint in soft, flat colour, or in brilliant and polished china glass if it be desired. if it be honest to paint the outside of our dwellings in colours to please us, what harm can there be in choosing such colors as may be agreeable for our inside finish, and body painting the woodwork to suit our decorative scheme? This idea is gaining ground, and the area of varnish finish is almost ended or at least the time when varnish atone was considered to convey title to respectability, and when painted interior woodwork was supposed to he sure indication of poverty and social inferiority, for now even the richest and most favoured society dare to paint their woodwork, if its suits theta best to do so.—Furniture and Decoration.

