<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



THE MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION.

<article title=" THE MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION " author="">

'[he recently formed Montreal Master Plumbers' Association will apply to the legislature for an act of incorporation. As the result of correspondence which has been going or for some lime between the Association and some of the leading plumbers of Quebec, it is probable that a plumbers' association will be organized at an early date in that city. The Council of the Arts and Manufactures Association has invited the Association here to assume superintendence of the plumbing class in connection with that institution. The meetings of the Association, which thus far have been held regularly twice a month, are well attended. Careful consideration has been given to the city plumbing by-law. The endeavor will be made to bring about a conference at an early date of representatives of the Association and of the City Council, to discuss needed amendments to the ordinance.

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

At a recent meeting of the Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects it was decided to hold monthly meetings and dinners of the members of the Association on the second Tuesday of each month during the winter, in the rooms of the Association, New York Life Building. It was also decided to hold a general special meeting of the members of the Association on Thursday, December the 6th, at 4 o'clock p.m., to discuss the amendments to the by-laws which will be proposed according to the notices of motion given at the last annual meeting, as follows :—Mr. A. C. Hutchinson will move to make the following change in section XI of the bylaws: to strike out the following words in the 3rd, 4th and 5th lines of the section—" to collect all funds and hand them to the Treasurer, taking his receipt for the same ;" and in line 8 of the same section to omit the words— "receipt for them to the Secretary,' and to add to section Xl the words— The Treasurer shall also furnish to the Secretary at the close of each year a list of the members whose subscriptions have been paid.

Mr. W. E. Doran will move to amend section V of the by-laws by changing the words in sub-section III thereof, after "separately," to read as follows—" The retiring President shall be ex-officio the premier member of the Council, the other five members to be balloted for on one paper."

Mr. Victor Roy will move that "The Lieutenant Governor of the Province, the Prime Minister, and the Minister of Public Works of the Province, the Mayors of Montreal and Quebec. the Honorable Sir Donald Smith and G. A. Drummond be elected as honorary members of our Association."



Mr. A. T. Taylor will move "That the Council shall appoint a Board of Examiners composed of six members, instead of four, as in the

past."



Members of the Association who may desire to introduce any sub-amendments in connection with these amendments, are requested to communicate them in writing to the Secretary on or before the 17th inst.

Mr. A. F. Dunlop, who was elected a member of the Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects at the recent annual meeting. has since resigned tile position.

THE BUILDING BY LAWS.



There are probably on this continent very few cities of the size of Montreal where the aesthetic in architecture is so much ignored. Some of our city fathers even are not more enlightened on the subject than their electors are. An example of the extent of their knowledge in that line was the passing of a by-law a few years ago, when the street railway craze began, to the effect that all buildings erected in future on the new street line should be faced with stone and be not less than three clear stories in height. As the result buildings strictly in accordance with this by-law, but of cheap construction and mostly of poor design, sprung tip on these promising thoroughfares, of which Notre Dame street is a recent example. Brick and terra cotta of any kind were absolutely prohibited for the facing of front walls, These materials in the eves of some of our aldermen are merely baked mud unfit for decorative purposes, but such highly ornamental and substantial material as galvanized iron was allowed to be used in profusion for decoration and the construction of cornices and towers. Recently the Merchants'

Bank of Halifax, which is erecting a very creditable and ornamental building at the corner of Seigneurs and Notre Dame streets, asked permission of the City Council to use buff pressed brick on the Notre Dame street fronts After considerable opposition on the part of some of the aldermen the bylaw was amended, and anyone may now use pressed brick for facing front walls. When that by-law was passed, instead of prohibiting the use of brick, which they thought was too common a material to be used on those streets, the aldermen might better have directed their attention to forbidding the employment of galvanized iron for cornices, etc., as a substitute for terra cotta and stone, and to the regulation of the height of each story, so as to ensure uniform height in the buildings, thereby preventing such erections as that on the corner of Notre Dame and McGill streets, one of the best business locations in the city, where the building conforms in every way to the by-laws, with a stone front, and three stories in height, but where the height of each story is not more than seven feet six inches. Would it not be wise for the civic authorities when a building permit is applied for not only to enquire about the constructive merit of the structure but also as to its artistic merit, with the object of putting a stop to the erection of buildings from so-called "builders' designs," and the showy and ill-constructed buildings put up wholesale by speculators, which at present do so much to disfigure our streets?

COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC.

<article title=" COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC " author="">

The schools of the Council of Arts and Manufactures of the Province of Quebec are institutions which interest in the highest degree architectural students, and apprentices devoted to the building arts in general, as they afford to pupils great facilities for developing their talents and taste in branches of study which are seldom met with in the daily routine of the office of the architect or in the workshops. These schools are established in all the cities of importance throughout the province, as in Quebec, Levis, Three Rivers, Sorel, Huntingdon, Granby, Sherbrooke, St. Hyacinthe, St. Jerome. and Montreal. which is their headquarters. The fist schools, that is those of Montreal and Quebec. were founded in 1873 by the Provincial Government, which elected a board of management actually composed of Messrs. E. E. Pache, J. F. Peachy. 6. E. Tanguay and Rev. J. C. K. Laflamme. of Quebec, T. Normand, M.P.P., of Three Rivers, D. Laine. of Levis, A. G. Lomas, of Sherbrooke, Paul Payan, of St. Hyacinthe, L. I. Boivin, G. Boivin, A. Boyd, Victor Roy. j. McFarlane. J, D. Rolland, F.

J.	Hart, J. C. Wilson, and W. McMaster, of Montreal, and S. C. Stevenson, BA.. as Secretary.

As a representative of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, I had the opportunity of visiting, a few days ago, the Montreal school, and cannot too highly recommend its system of instruction to those who wish to acquire some knowledge of modelling, freehand drawing and building construction, and am glad to be in a position to give herein a short description of the school. The school occupies three buildings, completely independent from one another. Two are antique but massive and well built buildings facing the Champs de Mars on St. Gabriel street, and forming the two angles of Fortification Lane, which begins at this point. The school is maintained at the expense of the Provincial Government, and is open free of charge to all male pupils above the age of fifteen years. It opens on the 5th of November in each year, to close on 5th April. Applications for admission are received by the Professors at the class rooms and are presented by the candidates in person, accompanied by a letter of recommendation from their employers. As the number of applications for admission in some of the classes are sometimes in excess of the number that can be immediately admitted, it becomes necessary for the later applicants to wait until vacancies occur; they are then admitted in the order of their applications. The only exception to this rule is made when the number waiting is more than enough to fill the probable vacancies for the season—then preference is given to those whose occupations require a knowledge of the study sought.

Pupils who may obtain admission to a class for which they are not properly qualified, are referred by their Professor to such class as may be deemed proper. They are then entered as applicants for this class, if they so desire, but are subject to the same conditions as new applicants of the same date. Each pupil on being admitted to a certain class is required to make a deposit of one dollar, which is returned if he has not been absent more than four times during the session. But in any case, when a pupil has sufficient reason for absenting himself, he should always report to his Professor in order to retain his position in the school. At the close of the session pupils must take charge of their drawing boards, instruments, etc., and all drawings or other works executed in the school are retained during the session ; at the close the Council may retain such works as it considers desirable, the remainder being returned to the pupils.

The building situated on the left hand side of Fortification Lane is three stories high and contains in the basement, which is reached by a side entrance. the class in lithography, with an attendance of s8 pupils, having at their head Mr. J. A. P. Labelle as professor. The instruction commences with the preparation of the lithographic stone for work, and proceeds by regular steps till the pupil is able to finish a drawing on the stone, ready for the press. Instruction is given in engraving on stone, crayon and pen and ink work. The stone and other materials required in the class room are provided free of cost to the pupil. This class meets every Monday and Friday between 7.30 and 9.30 p.m.

The ground floor is occupied by the administrative offices of the school, and the first floor by some government offices. The second floor is occupied by the architectural class and also by the pattern making class. The class of architectural drawing possess a fine room measuring about 15 x 50 feet, well equipped with drawing tables and other requisites, and has actually 23

