<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.

DISCOVERIES IN ARCHITECTURE *

<article title=" DISCOVERIES IN ARCHITECTURE " author="">

DISCOVERIES of things absolutely and always unknown are always rare and in some branches of study—architecture among others—are in the nature of things impossible. But in the sense of finding out or uncovering something previously unknown to the discoverer discovery occurs frequently, and it is by far the most healthy, the most interesting, and the most successful form of study. I propose then, in this lecture, to begin with the simple, but most valuable, discoveries which you as students must make for yourselves if you are really to master the art of Architecture and then to proceed to notice some of the discoveries which have taken place in recent years which are more brilliant in their character and relate to architectural matters that have long lain hid. I propose to distinguish these, and call them respectively personal and public discoveries for there is this distinction certainly between them, that the discoveries which a student makes are mostly of importance to him personally, but are not such as need he made public. Those which an explorer may make are perhaps quite as important to the general public as to the discoverer, and are usually published to the world.

The information you obtain in the offices where you work, or from attending classes like those about to begin in this college, is hardly discovery it is instruction, and the worst of it is that, as it is not difficult to get, it is very apt not to stick in the memory. The information discovered by making researches on your own account is mostly obtained with difficulty and trouble but it is seldom, if ever, forgotten. You may make discoveries in a library. For example, let us say that you are advised to read a handbook, say Fergusson's History," and you do so, finding it perhaps a rather laborious task, as the reading of any condensed book always must be. You notice, however, that the numerous wood cuts all have reference to the names of writers from whose publications they are copied, and having access to books, say to the Institute library, or that at South Kensington, or some other collection of books, you begin to consult some of the original authorities, and among them you discover some hook of which the illustrations or the letter-press, or both, bear on what you have been reading about, and are full and clear and interesting. The book you have discovered only occupies a corner of the vast field that Fergusson travels over but then the writer really has the leisure to take possession of that corner, and to throw a clear light upon it. The mere fact that you have to some extent unearthed the book for yourself helps to give a zest to the reading of it, or the examination of its illustrations. It is a discovery. Nor is it in a public library only that such discoveries can be made. In any collection of hooks or photographs or prints to which you have access, and on the shelves of second-hand booksellers and the tables of bookstalls, you can have the same good fortune. I, for example, myself possess not a few valuable books on subjects connected with architecture which first came to my knowledge through finding them on book stalls. This reference to discovering books ought not t() be made without alluding to the help to be got from one very valuable book of reference, which just now possesses a melancholy interest for some of us. I allude to the Dictionary of Architecture," of the Architectural Publication Society, a work bristling with sign-posts—if I may use such a phrase— calculated to direct the student (in his search for knowledge) to the best sources of information. In almost all the articles the most copious lists of references occur, and it is of the greatest use to a real student to have sources of information so liberally spread before his view. This work (begun by a circle of architects, some of whom only have survived to see its completion) would have been left unfinished but for the indomitable energy and public spirit of Mr. Cates, and the learning and patience of the late Mr. Wyatt Papworth, and it is impossible just now to mention the '' Dictionary " without alluding briefly' to the great loss which architecture has within the last few weeks sustained in the recent death of the last-named architect (Mr. Papworth). He was full of accurate and well-digested information on every subject connected with our profession, lie was an indefatigable, systematic and accurate worker, singularly quiet and simple in his manner and hearing, and was universally esteemed. In many ways his vast store of technical information has been made useful to the members of his profession. To you, gentlemen, his work, as editing Gwilt's "Dictionary," the value of which he practically doubled by the additions he made to it, is pretty sure to 1)e familiar but there are many others, and many important memorials of him in the literature of our profession, and his death leaves a blank which it will not be easy to fill up. To return, however, to students' discoveries—of which, by the bye, the late Mr. Papworth made many and valuable ones—architecture can be better learned from buildings than from books, and it is in visits to buildings, ancient and modern, that you will make the discoveries that will be of most use to you. The most simple building, if it is good, has some secrets, if you can but make them out. Why is it pleasing? Why are there certain irregularities? How is it constructed? What has been its history as a structure? These, and such-like questions, should Present themselves to the mind, and if we can but discover the answer to one such question, the visit to the building in respect of which it is asked will have been fruitful. Among the most interesting features of ancient buildings are the traces of their history which they bear indicating the successive enlargements, alterations, rebuildings and so forth, which they have undergone, and the discoveries of this sort which a keen student, examining an 01(1 manor house or a church, a cathedral or a castle, may make for himself, are extremely interesting and extremely instructive. One of the most complete accounts of such a series of discoveries, illustrating the past history of a great building by its actual visible marks, exists in the account of Canterbury Cathedral, from the pen of the late Prof. Willis. No man during the present time of careful research has been more keen or more successful in his examination of ancient buildings than he, and this record is a good example of the manner in which it is possible to make them tell the story of their varied changes, alterations, rebuildings and extensions. Even without a tenth part of the minuteness and elaboration of Willis's investigation, if you simply establish the broad divisions of Saxon, Norman, Early English and so forth, in a building with



Abstracts from an inaugural lecture delivered at University College, London, on Thursday evening, October 11, 1894, by Prof. T. Roger Smith, F.R.I.B.A.

a chequered history, and recognize the most obvious features of each period, you will have discovered the leading facts in the history of the building. In this sort of research it is peculiarly true that " to him that hath shall be given." To a person even of artistic taste and power of observation, entirely devoid of architectural knowledge, a building is almost a sealed book; but when you have got even a little knowledge from other sources a building begins to be legible. As an example, I would suggest to any student who has read something of the changes in tracery, in vaulting, and in mouldings which occur in English architecture, that when he has obtained some knowledge of these things from books he should go to Westminster Abbey cloister, getting first from Scott's book the dates at which it was done, and identify the different features of each period, and the changes both in feature and general proportions. He will find that he has discovered a good deal of what is really meant by the terms Early English, Decorated and Perpendicular. It is possible to make discoveries on drawings of buildings as well as on the buildings themselves. An example of what I mean If you take the drawings of one of Sir Christopher Wren's churches, and examine them carefully, you may perhaps discover some of the principles upon which he designed them, lie was a very orderly and mathematical worker, lie had strongly impressed upon his mind the conviction that the establishment of geometrical relations between the main dimensions of his building was a means of securing that their proportions should be pleasing, and if, with this clue in your mind, and a pair of dividers in your hand, you examine a series of engravings giving the plans, sections, and elevations of his churches, and St. Paul's Cathedral, you will, I think, find it possible, and extremely instructive, to discover some of his methods of working. The plan and sections of St. Stephen's Church, Walbrook, generally recognized as the best among Wren's many successful interiors, will be very good to begin with. A famous place to investigate is a good museum. I doubt whether any one of you has seen, let alone studied in, all the museums of London which furnish information about architecture, though I hope most of you have studied, or will study in some.

That an architect should overhaul the church in any village or town where he may be, if it be of good design or possessed of features of interest, is, I hope, so much a matter of course, that I do not stop to point out how much can be discovered and appropriated in journeys and country rambles but I am disposed to dwell upon the modern work which awaits the traveller in various parts of England. The country is now thickly sprinkled with fine mansions and smaller country houses, nearly all of them good, and many of them extraordinarily good.

<article title=""CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" STUDENTS' COMPETITION " author="">

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

THE publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

invites designs from students for a Muskoka Summer Cottage to Cost not more than $1,000. The accommodation required is a generous 1iving room, with pantry and kitchen; five bed rooms, and provision for fuel.

The cottage is to be erected on a wooded island or point, the principal view being southward. The actual site is rocky and broken, with no extent of level surface, the space to be occupied by the cottage varying in level some 8 or 10 feet.

Competitors are required to submit floor plans and two elevations unless accompanied by a perspective, in which case one elevation will be sufficient.

Each design (including elevations, plans, etc.,) must be made on a single sheet of heavy white drawing paper or bristol board, 14 X 20 inches in size, and must be drawn sufficiently coarse to have the proper appearance when reduced by the photo-engraver to one half the above size. The drawing must be made in FIRM, STRONG LINES, with PEN and BLACK ink. No color or brush work will be allowed. Each drawing must be marked only with the nom de plume of its author. The author's full name and address, enclosed in sealed envelope, with nom de plume on the outside, must accompany each drawing submitted. This envelope will not be opened till after the competition shall have been decided. There is also required a brief description of the design, mentioning the materials proposed to be employed in the construction of the building.

Drawings for this competition must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto not later than the 20th of December, 1894.

The first premium is the sum of $10; the second, $5 the third, one years subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The decision as to the merits of the designs submitted will be made by three members of the Ontario Association of Architects. This decision will be final. The publisher of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER reserves the right to publish such of the designs submitted as may be deemed suitable, and to withhold the award should none of the designs be found to satisfactorily meet the requirements.

All drawings will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

Architects are debarred from this competition.



WHEN the national pike bridge, west of Richmond, Ind., was in process of construction, says the Indianapolis Sentinel, the workmen at the west side of White Water river dug down to find a solid foundation. They struck a great and seemingly bottomless bed of quicksand. Vainly they labored to find a safe resting-place for the foundation. Finally the civil engineer and the contractor struck on a novel expedient to overcome the difficulty. They sent men all through the country to buy wool. This wool they packed into the quicksand till the sand would take no more. At last, on this wooly foundation, the rocks were laid and to-day the western abutment of 'he old national bridge rests on a bed of compressed wool.

