

<doctype type="text"> ILLUSTRATIONS 

C. A. & B. COMPETITION FOR A TOWN HOUSE—-DESIGN BY "IG



NORAMUS' (<person>MR<person>. J. EUGENE PAYETTE</person>, MONTREAL)



AWARDED FIRST POSITION.



"BITS FROM MY SKETCH 1100K "—BY <person>EUSTACE C. BIRD.</person>



CERTOSA DI PAVIA, FINESTA SULLA, FACCIATA DELLA



CHIESA, ITALY.



TOWERS AND STEEPLES-—<person>SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN</person>, ARCHI



TECT.—(REPRODUCED FROM ORIGINAL DRAWINGS BY



MR<person>. A. T. TAYLOR</person> F R I A., MONTREAL).



CHATEAU D' AZAY- LE- RIDEAU, FRANCE.



THE WEST END OF NAVE, WELLS CATHEDRAL,.—FROM A



DRAWING BY MR<person>. E. WILBY.</person>



The portion of nave shown in this view dates from the earlier part of the 13th Century. The strong Romanesque feeling running through the whole design is quite exceptional in a building of so late a dale. It may be seen in the form of the clustered piers, the profile of the arch mouldings, in the continuous mould to triforium arcade, and in the square or octagonal abaci to capitals in place of the more usual circular Early English.



<article title="Upper part of Magdalen Tower, Magdalen College, Oxford" author="Bird, Eustace G.">UPPER PART OF MAGDALEN TOWER, MAGDALEN COLLEGE, OXFORD.



"Magadalen College' said Lady Macaulay, "is one of the most remarkable of our academical institutions. Its graceful lower catches afar off the eye of the traveller who comes by road from London. As he approaches he finds that this tower rises from an embattled pile, low and irregular, yet singularly venerable, which, embowered in verdure, overhangs the sluggish waters of the Cherwell."



The window tracery and other carved work has been carefully restore(l and a new stone figure of St. Mary placed in the middle pinnacle on the eastern side. The tower is 150 feet high, and contains a "ring" of  ten bells. It was built in 1492-1507 Al); and for simplicity of design and graceful proportions it is unequalled in England.

EUSTACE G. BIRD.



<article title=" Canadian Architect and Builder" Competition For a Town House." author="">"Canadian Architect and Builder" Competition For a Town House.

THE best designs received in this competition have faults which would negate their actual erection without alteration, but there is sufficient merit in them and sufficient evidence of study to fully merit the award of the prizes offered. The three best designs are by "Ignoramus," "Gotham," and "Colonial

the three prizes have been given to them in that order.

"lgnoramus" sends in a design, published in this number, which has the defect of not being essentially a town house, and the farther defect of an attic (reached by a stair crossing a window) which, slim as it appears in plan, would be still worse in execution, and it is obvious that he was quite aware of this from the floor lines which he has set against the elevations. But the other floors are good, especially the ground floor, which is very well arranged for comfort and interior effect, and on the whole there is an originality and thought shown.

"Gotham" has a good design also. It is a great question whether it would not be better if turned over so as to get the dining room on the south. The arrangement of the front bedroom is unstudied, and the back stairs rather too close work and too dark for comfort. The style of exterior treatment is very good and simple.

"Colonial" has a very clear drawing. The plan is more complex than those of the first two and has many faults. The main stair is ill planned and could have been right in the same space. The kitchen is too small; the dining room is all doors and windows. The stable is impractical.

The other competitors have been arranged approximately in order but: without the same effort at certainty as was made in arranging the relative positions of the first three. The following points with reference to them may be noted

"Demos," who makes a good fourth, has a rather commonplace plan but an elevation showing considerable merit and feeling for brickwork.

"Peck" has some excellent points, and is none the worse for not having very salient features. All is in fairly good quiet taste. He should black his walls in plan for reproduction on a reduced scale.

"Module' has not fulfilled the conditions. There is not

enough room left on the lot for light on one side and a driveway on the other. The floor plan thus gets a roominess to which it is not entitled. The elevation shows understanding of colonial work.

"Hasty"—-The kitchen is too small. The pantry is only a bit of passage. The dining room is 12'6" wide, has a mantel on one side and a radiator on the other. This interference with the passageway on both sides would be a serious inconvenience in so narrow a room. The bedroom floor is not well studied. The exterior is unpretending but not bad.



"1894" has a very good plan, a little ambitious, but without falling into striking defects. The exterior is not pleasing, but is also not commonplace.



"Far" has made an initial mistake in having planned a basement kitchen. In spite of the space thus gained on the ground floor he has not succeeded in giving an impression of space. The elevations show originality, though in a crude stage.

"Scribbler" has a very good straightforward plan, but with all the rooms to the north, and the south occupied by stairs and a long passage. The design is poor.

"Victoria" has a basement kitchen at the extreme front (under the drawing room) and a dining room at the extreme back on a floor above. It would be hard to atone for this to a housekeeper by any other convenience proceeding from this arrangement, and there does not seem to be anything of the kind. The storey thrown over the driveway is a good idea.

"Cosmo"-—The elevations (drawn in a scratchy way) are good

—much better than the plan, which seems to show inexperience. The stairway is badly placed, right at the front door.

"Gamut," "Jack" and "Enchell" seem hardly up to the com

petition.	___________





<article title=" SETTING AND BURNING ROOF TILES " author="">SETTING AND BURNING ROOF TILES.

In setting plain roofing tiles the first thing to do is to see that the kiln bottom is in proper shape. This should fall from the sides to the center about 1 1/2 inch, that is, it should be 1 1/2 inch lower in the middle than the outer sides; this tends, when the sinking of the goods commences, to bring them together for mutual support. On the other hand, if the kiln bottoms are dead level, the setting is liable to open in firing, and the tiles reel in various directions, causing great waste. In setting l)lain roof tiles, these should be set in courses, each course covering a certain extent of ground before No. 2 course is set, and not built up in bungs, which is sometimes done. The latter system gives no tie of support; plain tiles in setting should be interlocked; each 10 or 11 tiles, as the case may be, should he set on the header and stretcher principle. This forms another tie to keep from reeling, and every other tile should be reversed, i.e., the plain end of one tile resting against the nib of the previous one, leaving a cavity between the tiles for the draught. In setting pin tiles, say 8 or 10 tiles in a bung, divide the number given in equal quantity, and bring them together in a convex form; this gives you heat passage through the centre as well as the angle of the bung, set on the header and stretcher plan, same as the nib tile. Firing should be done with great caution ; all through the burning special care should be taken until the fire is clear through, which should be done in a steady and progressive manner.



<article title=" MOSAICS LAID IN GOLD " author="">MOSAICS LAID IN GOLD

The church of St. Mark, in Venice, is said to contain the finest mosaics in the world. And, indeed, in not many places will they he found laid in such costly beds and with such extravagant profusion. On the walls, the ceilings and cupolas the tiny bits of rare marble are laid in exquisite designs on a bed of gold. Of these there are over 40,000 square feet of surface, the effect of the colored marble, each individual piece surrounded by its thread of gold, impress the beholder with a sense of grandure and beauty rarely experienced in gazing at the best efforts of the builder's art.



A Michigan paper announces the receipt by a local builder of a large shipment of cedar lumber from Messrs. <firm>George Cassidy & Company</firm>, Victoria, B. C., and describes the material as follows —It is absolutely clear, lighter in weight than pine, of beautiful color and texture, and belt of all, not more expensive than our best clear dry pine, very little of which is now obtainable at any price. This wood is growing rapidly in public favor for interior finishing, its natural shades and graining, when it is properly filled and oil polished, being equal to the most expensive hardwoods. It also takes the place of baswood and more expensive material for carriage work.

