<doctype type="text">
<article title="THE LONDON, ONT., PUBLIC LIBRARY COMPETITION " author="">THE LONDON, ONT., PUBLIC LIBRARY COMPETITION.Much dissatisfaction has been caused to the majority of the competitors in the above competition by the action of the Board in awarding first position to a design which in a most essential particular does not comply with the instructions issued to all the competitors. A copy of the specified requirements as forwarded to one of the competitors by the Secretary of the Library Board, is as follows[Copy.]MESSRS.	LONDON, June 27th, 1894.Toronto.Gentlemen In reply to yours of June 26th, would say, Competition is open. We require plan of Basement, showing Lavatory, etc.; plan of Ground Floor; plan of First Floor; Front and Side Elevations.Size of Building, 50 x So feet, of local brick faced with N. 2 pressed bricks. Basement, size 20 X 50 feet. 8 feet in the clear of St. Mary's or Credit Valley stone, 8 feet to Ground Floor.Ground Floor to have Librarian's Room, Reading and Ladies' Toilet Room, wood ceiling 14 feet high, pine floor and finished in clear pine.First Story finished in grey plaster with i4-inch base, no partitions, wall to be at least 7 feet to plate maple floor.Roof to be of slate and at least 1/2 pitch.Building to be heated with hot air, with gas piping and wiring.The upper floor to he deafened.Plan to be drawn to scale of 8 feet to inch.Elevations to be in black and white.In case the Building and Heating Apparatus cannot be erected for $12,ooo (twelve thousand dollars), the Committee will not pledge themselves to pay any commission.The successful competitor to receive $600. The man whose plans are accepted to furnish plans, specifications, and superintend the erection of the Building.Plans to be in by July 3rd.	Yours truly,	(Sgd.)	C. E. KEENE, Sec.The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER has also received from a well-known firm of architects the following letter on this subject:Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.SIR, The united protest from all the architects who entered the London, Ont., Free Library competition and were so meanly treated by the Library Board, forms but another link in the chain of circumstances adverse to the straightforward practice of the profession of architecture in Canada. It seems inconceivable that a Board occupying such a position of public trust, should have so little respect for justice and fairdealing as to permit the conditions of competition, formulated for the purpose of instructing competitors as to what was required in the proposed building, to be utterly disregarded in one of its most important clauses. Who would dare to assert that it is right to limit all the competitors to a certain clearly defined portion of the lot on which the building is to stand, and at the same time accept the only design which covers nearly the whole of the two sides of the lot— having frontages on each street vastly in excess of the stipulated site? There is something wrong when no steps are taken to rectify such an injustice, although the attention of the Board was at once called to the matter.The competition was entered upon the district understanding that the design which best met the requirements of a free public library, would be adopted, providing it complied with the proper and reasonable conditions of the Board and of the site. Surely, no sane person would expect reputable architects to devote their time to the elaborate designing of a building, upon the loose understanding that the instructions given did not form part of the competition, or that anything in the way of a library planSIZE OF LOT, 8o X 100.BUILDING.100 FT.Scale of Diagram—20ft. to the inch.The following protest, in which the fairness of the award is called in question, has been presented to the Library BoardTo the Chairman and Members of the Free Library Board, London, Ont.Gentlemen —We the undersigned architects, having submitted designs for the proposed Public Free Library, to be erected in London, in accordance with your advertisement of June 1st. 1894, and the conditions furnished by your Board for our guidance in preparing the same, respectfully beg to protest against the acceptance of a design which is not in accordance with those conditions.We were instructed to make the size of the building 50 feet by 8o feet, and all our designs were made to comply with that reasonable and feasible condition, whereas, the only design which totally ignored that portion of your instructions, has been awarded first place, notwithstanding the fad that it has frontages of one hundred feet by about sixty feet.We, therefore respectfully beg to submit that we have all been led, by your advertisement, into the expenditure of much time and money, and that in justice to us, you should reconsider your decision, at the earliest possible date, and that the award should be made to the best design conforming to your conditions.We have the honor to be, Gentlemen,Respectfully yours,(Sgd.) T. A. MOORE.	(Sgd.) SIDDALL & BAKER.	(Sgd.) MCBRIDE & FARNCOMBE.	(Sgd ) BEAUMONT JARVIS.(Sgd.) M. L. BUFFY.	(Sgd.) MOORE & HENRY.(Sgd.) GEORGE R. HARPER, Toronto.—QUEEN'S AVE.would do, if it did not exceed the specified cost, nor, if it did exceed the cost in this case, would it have mattered much? Probably not.We believe there was an effort made to have the rules of the Ontario Association of Architects, for the deciding of competitions adopted, but without success. The Board did consider the advisability of appointing properly qualified persons to decide as to the best design, but this sensible idea was not adopted. T he result is, the adoption of a design which any properly qualified person would have been in duty bound to reject. Probably the small expense of employing competent assistance was the cause of its not being done. It remains to be seen whether they have or have not lost more by the course adopted. The twentieth century is near, and it is high time that qualified architects should demand the discontinuance of this sort of thing. From the personnel of the Board in this case, one would expect considerations of justice to occupy a prominent place. But there has been a wrong done, unwittingly, no doubt, in the first place, but none the less a wrong, and common justice should suggest to them that the least they can do is to try to have it righted.FAIR PLAY,