<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

ILLUSTRATIONS.

COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR THE PROTESTANT ORPHAN ASYLUM, COTE DES NEIGES ROAD, MONTREAL.— JAMES R. RHIND, ARCHITECT.

The sum allowed, viz., $30,000 was small for the accommodation called for, the design therefore had to be made very plain and inexpensive. But an endeavor is made to give a good outline by the grouping of gables and chimneys and the central "fleche" for ventilation.

RESIDENCE FOR MRS. MCNALLY, WESTON, ONT.—J. A. ELLIS,

ARCHITECT, TORONTO.

The house is built of brown stone and red bricks, slate roof, with a complete system of plumbing, heated with hot water.

"MAPLEHURST," THE RESIDENCE OF DR. CHARLTON, WESTON,

ONT.—J. A. ELLIS, ARCH ITECT, TORONTO.

In the construction of this house, there has been employed Credit Valley brown stone, and Carlton brick, slate roof, modern plumbing, hot water heating. The house, which occupies a prominent site, contains a conveniently arranged suite of offices

HOUSES FOR DR. CAMPBELL, MONTREAL—DUNLOP &

HERIOT, ARCHITECTS.

PORTRAITS OF OFFICERS OF THE BRITISH COLUMBIA

INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" STAINING WOOD " author="Marks, James">

STAINING WOOD.

THIS is a subject few writers in the magazines have touched upon, writes James Marks in Painting and Decorating. It is not so well understood as priming or painting; it requires a knowledge of wood, its nature and the beauty that a stain is to bring out, or at least not mar or destroy. All woods have a transparent look, or what may be termed reflection they change as light strikes them. Look at a varnished door of hard wood in one light, the cross stiles will look darker than the upright stiles. Change your position or change the light, and the reverse will appear. Examine a panel of bird's eye maple, or any curled wood, it will change as the light is reflected on it. This is the beauty of real wood, whether varnished or stained, and is a beauty that no grainer has ever been able to imitate.

To stain wood and keep this reflecting power or change of appearance, is or should be the object. It has been done, it can be done, but it very seldom is clone. The conditions are against its being done on the ordinary work that is met with in our every-day experience. The first thing necessary is the wood itself it must be clear, and free from sap, soft places and knots. Mill dressed lumber should be finished off with a sharp smoothing plane. No sandpaper should be used on the work; all ends of mortices should be carefully sized, before staining, so as not to appear dark, by the extra quantity of stain they absorb. No lime or plaster should touch the woodwork, or a dark stain will be the result.

Let us varnish a piece of woodwork of this description, say white pine, with three coats of light hard oil finish, or, better, a good No. 1 coach varnish, and all the beauty of the wood is to be seen. Nothing is marred, nothing hid. Next let us stain and varnish, and the chances are that the fine, satin-like reflection is gone. There is something in the stain that mars the fine transparent reflection which is the beauty of all natural wood finish. The grain may be left, and even be brought out more prominently by an inferior stain but this is not or should not be the object sought for, for if the reflection which changes is destroyed with a filler or a stain, then it should not be used.

The average age painter concludes that a coat of thin color that produces the desired tint is a stain, and will, and does, in a number of instances, meet the requirements of a stain best, but this is not a proper stain. No coating of any pigment, no matter how finely prepared, or how applied, in oil or distemper, can be applied to wood as a stain without destroying the real beauty of the wood, the reflection.

it is the natural tendency of all woods to darken tinder varnish or polish how this is cannot be readily accounted for, except it be the action of light on the wood shining through the varnish or polish, either of which excludes air; but when they darken in this way it is always with a change of color natural to the color of the wood in its native or new state. This can be observed in old oak furniture or mahogany, both of which grow old with a beautiful transparent richness, the color of which should be imitated if possible.

Let me give an illustration I have a strip of ash or light oak, the grain of which is as near to walnut as possible. This strip is to be stained the color of the walnut, and the reflection is not to be destroyed. The stain that will accomplish this is a proper stain and none other.

Staining has taken the place of graining, and while, on account of cheapness, it may be a substitute, so far as the average job is concerned, that is produced with a coat of stain and filler combined, or color stained, it has neither the beauty nor appearance of an average job of graining, and will not until woodwork is properly prepared and staining is properly done then be assured it may compete with graining, but it will certainly cost more money. There must be a new idea formed, and a more correct one, of what is needed, and the makers of stains and fillers must be required to produce a stain that will do the work in a proper manner, under skillful workmen, and not advance claims for their goods that cannot be accomplished.

	STUDENTS' D[FMRIMLNI.	___

<article title=" ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARCHITECT " author="">

ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARCHITECT.

THE following characteristic letter was prepared by the late Mr. William Burges, at the desire of a young architect, who consulted him about the worthiest course to follow in the study and practice of architecture

"My Dear Sir, I venture to submit the following considerations to your notice —"You have passed your apprenticeship, done your Academy,

and finished the usual Continental tour, and the question now arises as to what you are going to do?

If you follow the usual course, you would take an office, hunt up work, and do the same according to your rights, consoling yourself that many architects would do it much worse.

"Of course, there are various sorts of practice. all of which are open to you, and you might become simply a house doctor, or a warehouse architect, or a light and air man, or an architectural policeman (i.e., district surveyor), or a general practitioner ; and it is quite possible to make money by any of these, the amount depending on the extent of the practice, and that again upon the number of fi ends, besides the amount of the importunity and imprudence by which work may be solicited.

"But reflect are any of these men artists ? It is true that when they die they may have made money, but what else will they leave to the world besides that? Their names are simply written in water.

"Now, it is quite open to you to take to all or any of these lines of practice, to make money, to bring up a family, to become churchwarden and, above all, to be pronounced 'warm' when you leave this world.

"My object in writing these lines is to suggest to you that there is another course open by which you may perhaps be the means of leaving some beautiful things to posterity, and by which your name may possibly survive after you have quitted this life.

The question arises, 'Why not try to be an artist, an accomplished man, a creator of works of art, and an ornament to your profession ?'

"You have not the excuse that many have for not making the attempt, as I understand you are in a great measure independent of your profession.

"Why not use that advantage to be something more than an idler on the one hand or a money grubber on the other ?

"Try at least for a couple of years. They will not be lost years, even should you eventually not take up the artistic branch of your profession for you will to a certain degree have educated yourself in the attempt, and you will be so much the better.

"Supposing you decide to try, let us see where you are. You know something of modern construction, enough to enable you to practice without letting your buildings fall. You can draw well, and in an architectural and geometrical manner ; but I know nothing of your perspectives, and your freehand drawing is woolly, and wants precision. Above all, you are very defective in the human figure. (You have, I presume, a fair knowledge of the history of architecture.)

"Now, I should recommend you to employ your next two years in three principal things

i.	The drawing of the human figure. This is easily the foundation of all good taste. I don't mean that you should spend weeks in frizzling tip a figure in chalk, for you are not going to be a painter, but that you should learn to draw correctly and know the bones and muscles which go to make up the outline, and, in fact, to be able to account for everything you see.

"2. A serious course of reading of the best and well-known authors. This also will conduce to form your taste. Philosophy and science will not help you so much as works of the imagination. Bohn's Library furnishes fair translations of the best authors at 5s. per volume but if the work is a translation, it is desirable to get two or more versions and to compare them together. In the Classics, I should recommend Homer, Aristophanes, Aeschylus, Herodotus, Xenephon, Virgil, Horace, Apuleius us. Of the moderns, Dante, Chaucer, Shakespeare, 'Faust,' 'Robinson Crusoe,' , Undine,' and Lane's translation of the 'Arabian Nights.' Of course I could mention many more, but these are sufficient for the present.

3.	To carefully study and draw various beautiful things and whether the said thing be a piece of jewelry or a piece of iron work or a building or portion of a building—to do it thoroughly, to find its construction, and why this and that is done, the basis of the ornamentation, the particular form of the curves, and never to leave it until you know all about it. The result will be that the next time you see a similar thing you will know all about it, and won't want to study it again. I)o everything by common sense; don't make a drawing when you can make a rubbing, and regard all your drawing in the light of evidence which is worth next to nothing if it is not authentic.

"I consider you very lucky that you have such an apportunity of having your 'learning time' over again, and I am quite sure that if you make up your mind to be industrious, your two years spent in the way I have ventured to suggest will be very happy as well as very useful ones.

"Hoping you are not bored by the above.

	I remain, yours truly,	"W. BURGES."

