<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.



AN ENQUIRY.

<article title=" AN ENQUIRY " author="">

TORONTO, Dec. 1st, 1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



am troubled in my mind about a house which is just about completed on Lowther Ave., this city. The design, particularly the front elevation, is different from anything I have seen in a similar situation. I should therefore like to know something of the reasons for its peculiarity. Toward the street the windows are few and small, giving it an appearance far from cheerful. They are larger in the rear. I have read of houses of which it was necessary to understand the plan in order to appreciate the design. Perhaps this is an instance of that kind. I have seen it partially promised, or at least proposed, that the 0. A. A. would hold open meetings with illustrations and friendly criticism and discussion of some works. I would be delighted to see and hear the subject referred to treated in this way. Is there any probability of such an opportunity being afforded during the present winter?

Yours faithfully,

INQUISITIVE STUDENT.

<article title=" A WATER-COLOR CLASS FOR STUDENTS " author="">



A WATER-COLOR CLASS FOR STUDENTS.

TORONTO, Dec. 11th, 1894.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,——The endeavor has recently been made to establish a water-color class for architectural students in this city, under the excellent instruction of the well-known artist, Mr. C. M. Manley. Notwithstanding the extremely moderate figure at which Mr. Manley consented to give his services, great difficulty was experienced in getting the half dozen members necessary to form the nucleus of the class.

In the spring of 1893 a water-color class numbering some eight or ten members, was formed, and made good progress, but most of the members upon whose energy its success depended are now in the United States. Sketch clubs have likewise been founded, with what success we all know. I think it is the deprivation of a few winter Saturday afternoons, including the foregoing of hockey-clubs and various other social attractions that keeps the majority of students from joining. As architectural students, choosing a profession in which not only the trades, but also the arts are involved, why should we hesitate for a moment in grasping every opportunity presented to us for self-improvement?

Sincerely yours,

STUDENT.



ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS." author="">

BOOK work and practical work are two of the relative factors in the student's life; but for some reason or other, says the Building News, they are generally divorced. Many a student thinks he can learn everything from books. The recent remarks of a medical authority to students in that profession are applicable to the architectural student. The elementary textbook ought to be used as the skeleton of his knowledge ; the student ought to endow it with the tissues and life from his own personal observation, by practical school courses and visits to buildings. A mere dry study of textbooks is of little value, except to furnish the mind with names and definitions, and yet the ordinary student regards the textbook in the light of something to be read through, and committed to memory as quickly as possible. No wonder the pupil undervalues the textbook, and looks upon it much in the same manner as the schoolboy does his Murray or his Eaton Latin Grammar. They are looked upon as "dry as dust" manuals, and the more elementary they are the more difficult they are to grasp and comprehend. Instead of being used as a "skeleton of knowledge," which they simply are, to be clothed by his own experience, the student cannot see any use or value in them, as they do not supply his needs. But the student of a practical order of mind, who has served his time in an office, can utilize the elementary textbook; he reads into it his own experience, and he begins to read it with some interest. A good advice given by an eminent physician to his class is to write his own textbook by grafting his practical work on to an elementary manual, and to revise his knowledge before entering for an examination by the 1ight of a

first class textbook. Every student can do this ; if he has any love for his work at all, he will take an interest in filling up the outlines and sketches of a manual on styles with his own notes and sketches, and his scientific textbooks with remarks of his own derived from practical knowledge, or from other authors. The Institute rightly insists on the necessity of making reading thorough by supplementing it by the taking of notes and sketches, and by information under various heads from different authorities. The continuous use of a note book is enjoined on the student, in which he should write down, in his own words, the principal part of the books under study, and also supplement these notes by sketches from all available sources (notes on one page, sketches on the opposite page). The accurate sketching of old work in plan, elevation, construction, and detail from memory is equally valuable, thus bringing eye, brain and hand into exercise. in this way the student can be made to enter into the spirit of the art. The note and sketch book are the only true tests of the student's knowledge; they serve to indicate the extent of the knowledge he has made his own from lectures and reading and observation, and serve to mark him off from those who pursue the course-and-cram system, and desire to become architect in name only. We are inclined to think, despite the advice of teachers at official head-quarters, that the "course-and-cram" system is now most in favor amongst young men who desire to assume the role of architect or engineer. Like the clinical work of the medical student in the hospital wards, the practical work on building must go hand in hand with books and lectures.

Perhaps there is another distinction between the two aspirants we have been considering, and one that lies deeper than methods of study. The novice who is in such a hurry to take the name of architect is often a more receptive man than he who is in earnest to prove his qualifications and credentials. He learns by rote quickly, has a capital memory, and, with the help of a little "coaching," is sure to pass any examination. It has been pointed out by all authorities on teaching that the receptive man quickly learns and benefits by teaching, which only arouses opposition in the critical man, and this explains the reason why so many of those who have passed examinations with credit frequently fail to exhibit any talent in actual practice. In every profession there are examples of this fact but in architecture we find designers of very feeble buildings able to go through their examination with conspicuous credit. Between the critical faculty necessary to select good forms and to arrange plans upon logical data, and the mere receptive ability to collect facts and work out formulae, a great gulf is fixed. The one order is perceptive—it can discriminate between good and bad, can think out a problem of design, while the other can only gather and grope its way between conflicting opinions. The first can invent, the other only collect and classify hence we find that copies and poor compilation of existing buildings are the rule rather that the exception.



CHARACTERISTIC	FEATURES OF HOT—WATER HEATING.

FIRST. The ability to produce a gentle warmth with

a low fire. The temperature of the water may be raised to 100

degrees for the chilly damp days of September and May,

140 degrees for the cold air of October and April, and 180 and

200 degrees for the cold winter months, the amount of heat being

regulated from day to day as the season demands.

Second. Should the fire be unintentionally neglected, the water will continue to circulate and give off its heat as long as any fire remains in the boiler, or warm water in the pipes.

Third. Hot water may be regulated to meet any ordinary changes of temperature, and therefore there is no excuse for overheating on mild days. This point, however, may be urged for steam where the boiler is provided with modern automatic regulating appliances.

Fourth. The valve or radiator may be partly closed, which will retard the circulation and cool the radiator down to any desired temperature.

Fifth. The circulation of hot water is invariably noiseless, the pressure is uniform, the heat is clean, mild and delightful, and with intelligent management great uniformity of temperature may be obtained throughout the house.—Plumbers' Trade Journal,

