<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



 AND FURNITURE	





<article title=" THE EXTERNAL COLOUR-DECORATION OF BUILDINGS " author="Formilli, Cesare">



THE EXTERNAL COLOUR-DECORATION OF BUILDINGS.*

By T. G.. CESARE FORMILLI.



AMONGST the many considerations suggested by the works of the old masters in Art, there is one concerning the external decoration of houses which leads to the enquiries Why is it that to-day, when the words "old masters" are on the lips of all, when we consult and study them, that we do not take examples from the various methods that they had of externally decorating their edifices with such beautiful effect? and why do we not also unite coloring with architecture? Colour does not disturb form in any way in fact, when colour is well-conceived, it greatly helps to bring out the full beauty of form. The Assyrian Art, the Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Arabian, Gothic, and finally, the Art of the fifteenth century, entered into the decoration of innumerable edifices of great importance, some with monochrome colours and some in polychrome whilst we, with few exceptions, when we want to do something above the ordinary level, generally resort simply to the usual terra-cotta or stone of uniform colour and to very little else.

We must, however, here note that, in spite of the general similarity of the external decoration of the present age, we see in them from time to time a tendency to more closely study the old masters, and we notice a certain revival of old ideas of great artistic value relating to external decorations in colour.

There is much that could be said about the art of uniting colour with architecture in the Greek and Roman periods, but the time is too limited on this occasion to attempt to cover so extensive a field. I will, therefore, limit myself to a few remarks about the methods adopted by the fifteenth-century artists for adding beauty and variety to their edifices. I ought also to say that amongst the many and varied styles of external decoration of the different artistic periods in different countries, that used by the fifteenth-century masters, which lends itself so particularly to our requirements, greatly surpassed every other style of decoration which had, up to that period, been used. What have we, it may be asked, more beautiful in external decoration than the immortal majolica of the Della Robbia, and the graffitos, chiaroscuros and frescoes of Polidoro da Caravaggio, Pellegiino da Bologna, Maturino, Fiorentino, Guillo Romano, and Raffaelle? These artists, who possessed such refined taste, covered many and many external walls of houses and palaces, which, for the proportion of the windows, the elegance of the columns, and that of the cornices, have excited immense admiration, and yet those beautiful and various decorations, framed, as it may be said, by the surrounding elements of architecture, have hardly been considered worthy of study. except in very rare cases.

Rome, Florence, Venice, and many other principal and secondary cities of Italy can give innumerable examples of the beautiful art of external decoration, which, in virtue of the material used and the mode in which the work was done, have endured through many centuries, as well as the architectural stonework which encloses them.

However, we must note that in these golden times the term "decorator" conveyed something more elevated and noble than it is frequently understood to mean to-day. In fact, in the past, a Michelangelo, a Raffaelle, a Cellini, were embraced in the title of decorator. Whereas n these days it is rarely that we see a work of industrial art executed by an artist of high reputation there seems to be a prejudice against such work. Why then, do we not entirely abolish this prejudice? Why do not artists who have great names, and those who have not, return to those good and wise traditions of the old times? What variety, what elegance of effect might be added to the many houses that are now being constructed with so much good architectural taste if there were introduced in some or all of the blank spaces decorations of majolica, graffito, chiaroscuro or fresco as in the fifteenth century.

Let us, however, now pass on to the principal methods of external decoration most used in that period, beginning with that of majolica.

Besides being extremely beautiful, the majolica decoration has the advantage of preserving the walls by preventing the penetration of moisture into the interior, and thereby protecting in the same way both the owner's properly and the occupiers health. As is generally known, external decoration n majolica is often seen in the Southern climates, whereas, in England, if it is used at all, it is chiefly for interiors. If we ought to believe in the old Latin saying, utile dulce, majolica would hardly be selected for the internal decoration of dwelling-houses in cold climates, for although in a certain sense it must be considered useful, it certainly would tend to discomfort indoors under ordinary circumstances during cold weather.

Externally, however, as already said, it protects the walls from rain, fog, and from dirt presenting at the same time to the eve a magnificent and varied effect. We may imagine the effect of the front of a house well designed by the architect for the applia paper read at a meeting of the "Art-workers' Guild," London, on October 5

cation of majolica, having beautiful friezes, medallions, panels, in this material, and of the truly artistic creation in the

sober sense in which the old masters intended. A big frieze, as made by Luca, Giovanni, or Andrea Della Robbia, with spaces between the windows, fitted with beautiful symbolical figures, representing, for example, scenes from family life, or fitted with scenes of child life, as Andrea fitted the famous medallions which decorate the space above the arches of the Hospital of the Innocents, in Florence.

What beautiful and sublime external decoration is made by the five figures of Giovanni Della Robbia, in Pistoria, namely, Faith, Hope, Charity, Prudence and Justice ; also by the immortal frieze, called "The Seven Works of Mercy," of which beautiful copies can be seen at South Kensington Museum, and which ale good in any case as an inspiration in that class of external decoration. Not less important or beautiful are the medallions of the arms of the King of Anjou, and the months of the year, both by Luca, and also found among the many treasures of the same Museum.

It would be too long to enumerate the many examples of decoration in majolica by the Della Robbia's family, who began with Michael, born about 1320, followed by Luca about 1399, by Andrea in 1435, and by Girolamo in 1488. Afterwards one branch of this family became almost French, and finished with Guido Della Robbia, who did not reach the age of touching the clay, but died in 1625 at the age of only five years.

Another system of external decoration not less beautiful and well adapted to resist atmospheric changes is without doubt that of graffito, which was adopted with immense technical and artistic knowledge in the renaissance of the Italian Art.

Such decoration, whether it be for its weathering powers in severe climates or for the magnificent artistic and at the same time subdued effect which it produces to the eye, certainly merits being considered as beautiful as decoration in majolica.

On the Continent, and especially in Germany and Italy, the art of Graffito is extensively used, but here in England many must regret that graffito decoration has been almost entirely neglected. It is difficult to account for this unless it is due to the erroneous impressions that the English climate would injuriously affect the work, or that it may be too expensive for general application.

Regarding the cost, I need only say that it would compare favorably with any decoration, even if it were of the simplest description, in stone or terra-cotta.

As to the durability of graffito, it is, if properly executed, quite capable of resisting heat, frost and rain, because it presents a very hard surface, and is much less porous than ordinary stones or bricks, whilst it lends itself to being easily washed, which is an advantage in foggy and smoky atmospheres. Of the very few examples of graffito existing in London, that which is at South Kensington, although not executed according to the method of real graffito, affords nevertheless good evidence that decorations of this character do not suffer materially from long exposure to atmospheric changes. If they are a little darker in tone than when they were executed, they still are perfectly distinct, and, without doubt, of a finer tone and more harmonious than when done by the artist. Here I ought to add that the work just mentioned is cut much deeper than graffito as intended by the old masters in this art—masters to whom we feel (deeply grateful for having added this treasure to their already invaluable bequests.

Vasari wrote of the graffito of his day, and gave considerable information about it. He referred to it in words which may be translated as follows :—" Artists have another sort of art, which is called graffito, and serves for ornamenting the fronts of houses and palaces, which may be quickly decorated by such a system, and more surely resists the rain. Its durability is entirely due to the etching on the wall instead of being simply drawn in chiaroscuro or in colours." He then describes the process of preparing and tinting the cement or plaster which is to be laid on the part of the building to be decorated, and which forms the background of the work, and explains how this is afterwards covered with a wash of lime of travertino, through which the lines are etched with an iron point. He further describes how backgrounds are obtained by the entire removal of the surface wash, and shows how strong projecting shadows for grotesque figures or designs of foliage may be produced by adding stronger shades of the same color to the background.

Referring again to the graffitos at South Kensington, they may be described as low relief in graffito rather than graffito proper, because the cut into the plaster or cement bed is excessively deep. The depth of the cut made with the iron or steel point by the artist in that particular work is a disadvantage, necessitated by plastering on the final coat instead of merely washing it on. So deep a cut gives a hard appearance to the design, and impedes the water from running off the walls, whilst tending to accumulate dirt. The true Italian graffito is without this inconvenient feature, because the depth of the cut is scarcely perceptible. The cut or score made by the instrument does not generally exceed the thickness of a sheet of drawing paper, or in other words, very little more than the thickness of the surface layer with which the bed-work is covered. Extremely beautiful effects can be produced under these conditions, perhaps more beautiful than can be obtained with a soft pencil on a rough paper. The weight of the leaning point of iron is itself sufficient

