<doctype type="text">	THE	BUILDER



WINNIPEG.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



There is little or no stir in the building line here at present—not even a rumour about an office building, or new opera house. ' Tis strange. tis passing strange,' for at this time each year we arc entertained with graphic descriptions of costly sky-scrapers'· to be erected the following spring— and as for opera houses, they ace without number—designed and fitted up in the most improved style, and second to none, here or elsewhere. The newspapers are always - creditably informed " that title capital ' has been subscribed, and that the work will be proceeded with at once If not sooner. In spring the snow disappears—carrying with it those visions grand, and with them the hopes of the architects, who then dream of what might have been if their clients—the men of ideas—had only succeeded in dazzling the men of dollars, with the prospect of reaping a golden harvest front the in-. vestment of the capital required to carry out their ambitious projects

Some three years since the Y.M.C.A. purchased an excellent site for their new home at the cornet of Portage avenue and Smith street, and they have paid off the major portion of the purchase money. Some of the leading men of the city have promised, as soon as the balance is paid, and the Property free of encumbrance, to erect thereon an association building designed ' up to date,' for it has become a recognized fact that it is a benefit, not only to the young men themselves, but also to the community at large

—for the former to have a home to which they are ever welcome, and a place of recreation, where they can enjoyably spend their evenings, and improve themselves spiritually, mentally and physically.

<firm>The Hudson's Bay Company</firm>, under the management of Mr. Chipntan, the Commissioner (who took charge about two years ago) are like the bears in the spring time awakening from their lethargy, and shewing evidence of renewed life—making their influence felt throughout Manitoba and the North-West, while their unprofitable branches are being lopped of, The company, octopus like, stretch forth and take possession of new and promising districts, consequently they have to expend a considerable amount each year providing new buildings in which to carry on their ever increasing business. This necessarily stimulates trade in the country, and is a benefit to all.

Winnipeg should congratulate herself that the Hudson's Bay flats, lying between Main street and the Red River, are no longer to remain the eyesore they have hitherto been, fur the proprietors (the Hudson's Bay Co.) have decided to turn them into athletic and racing grounds. This is one of the most laudable enterprises ever undertaken here, and will without doubt prove a great boon to the citizens, for the grounds are in the heart of the city, where everyone can go for a day's enjoyment without cost or fatigue, the grarling was commenced last autumn, and this year fences, grand stand stables and other buildings will be erected.

The Provincial Government provided in the estimates for the current year, the sum of $45000 for the erection of a Normal School building, and last spring they applied to the Dominion Government to grant a portion of the old driving park-—fronting on Broadway—for a site for the proposed building. The Dominion Government consented to give the site, but afterwards, at the solicitation of the Winnipeg Cricket Club—who, from some misunderstanding, thought their grounds adjoining, and consequently their game would be seriously interfered with—were the building erected there, The Dominion Government reconsidered this matter and declined to convey the land to the Province, It is to be hoped that " the powers that be" will give the matter their favorable consideration, now that W.C.C, have in-received light, and find that they were making ' a mountain our of a mole hill," This site is one of the finest, if not the finest, for the purpose, being next and opposite the Government buildings and in the centre of the fashionable south end, where parents are willing to pay the additional fee required to permit their children to attend the model classes in connection with the Normal School,

Regret has been expressed that in a progressive city such as this, which can boast of excellent ward schools and colleges, that the Normal School should have no home of its own in which to carry on its important work, and complete the links of the chain of our admirable system of education, because, forsooth, the noble game of cricket must not be interfered with,

When old Fort Garry was removed to make way for tile onward march of civilization, the arched stone gateway alone remained, With battlements bleached and walls worn by time and tempest, it stands as an Object lesson, reminding the passing beholder of the exciting scenes and stirring times which occurred within its massive portals during the early days when this country—now beginning to blossom as a rose—was known as the "Great Lone Land," Among the many suggestions regarding its preservation, one of the best is, that the city purchased the site on which it stands for a public park, the situation and the fine trees making it an excellent property for the proposal. Another suggestion is for the Provincial Government to remove the gateway, and re erect at the entrance of the grounds of either the Government House or the Legislative buildings, which, if acted upon, would combine sentiment with utility. The Historical and Scientific Society of Winnipeg invited in the autumn subscriptions towards a fund for the restoration of this interesting relic of ages passed away. But unfortunately their invitation was not responded to with the outburst of enthusiasm so common in more sentimental countries, We are a plain practical people and little affected by sentiment, especially at this season when paterfamilias is reminded daily that the coal pile is growing beautifully less, and the weather delightfully colder, Should this famed monument historique, which seems to be "nobody's child," crumble to dust, and be lost to coming generations, a blot will ever rest on the fair name of those in

authority, and children yet unborn will rise up and call them—well, not exactly blessed—for their indifference and parsimony in not preserving what will then be known as the lost atones of Fort Garry,





<article title=" MOULDINGS " author="">MOULDINGS,

Fillet or Listel right-angled mouldings require no description,

The Astragal or Bead.-To describe this moulding, divide its height into two equal parts, and front the point of division as a centre, describe a semi-circle, which is the contour of the  astragal,

Doric Annulets, The left-hand figure shows the Roman, and the right-hand figure the Grecian form of this building. To describe the latter, proceed thus Divide the height b a iota four equal parts, and make the projection equal to three of them, The vertical divisions give the lines of this tinder side of the annulets, and the height of each annulet. c c, is equal to one-fifth of the projection the upper surface of c is at right angles to the lines of slope,

Listel and Fascia,—(Roman). divide the whole height into four equal parts, make fillet et Listal

the listel equal to two of these, and its projection equal to two, With

the third vertical divi-	Astragal Bead

sion as a center, describe

a quadrant. (Grecian,)

—Divide the height into

four equal parts, make	Annulets

the fillet equal In one of

them, and its projection	-.      		________

equal to three-fourths of

its height.

  Cavette or Hollow,-— —-	Listel and Fascia

In Roman architecture

this moulding is a circu-

lar quadrant in Grecian	'

architecture it is an

elli pi heal quadrant rant, —~	Cavette or Hollow

which may be described -

by any of the methods

given in the first l)art of

the work,

  OVOLO or Quarter- ,	Ovolo

round-—This is a eon-

vex moulding, the re-

verse of the cavette, but

described in the same

manner,	__________       		 -___

  Cyma Recta.- A etirve

of double curvature, like	. -

former, and formed in

same manner,

  Trockilus of Scolia, —	______ Cyma Reversa     	'     	 ____

A hollow- moulding,

which, in Roman archi—

tecture is formed of two

unequal circular areas,

thus Divide the height	or

into ten equal parts, and	-~

at the sixth division draw		-

a horizontal line. From	-

the seventh division as a

centre-, and with seven

divisions as radius, de-	Tart

scribe from the lower

part of the moulding and

arc, cutting the above

horizontal line, and join the center and the point of intersection by a line which bisects ; and from the point of bisection as a center, with half the length of the line as radius, describe an arc to form the tipper part of the curve. There ate many other methods of drawing Ibis moulding. The Grecian trochilus is an elliptical or parabolic curse, the proportions of which are shown by the divisions of the (lotted litses,

The Torus,—The Roman moulding is semi-cylindrical, and its contour is of course a semicircle, The Grecian moulding is either elliptical or parabolic ; and although this and the other Greek mouldings may be drawn, its we have said, by one or other of the methods of drawing ellipses and parabolas, described in the first part of the work, and by other methods about to be illustrated, it is much better to because accustomed to sketch them by the eye, first setting their projections, as shown in this plate, by the divisions of the dotted lines.





d 

Mr<person>. John Day</person>, architect Guelph Ont,, has recently returned from a visit to Kansas City.

<person>F, G, Beckett</person>. was for several years was a student of architecture in Toronto and at Cornell University, has entered upon the practice of his profession in Toronto.

Mr<person>. Henry James</person>, chief architect  of the Militia Department at Ottawa, died at his residence in that city on the 28th of November, at the age of 'ears, Mr. James entered the Department of Public Works in 1878, and was appointed chief architect of the Militia Department in 1886, Prior to that time he practiced as a civil engineer.

