<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



been applied with better results when the platform has been made with iron beams covered and protected with concrete.

It has been observed in Venice, a city founded on the marshy bottom of a lagoon, that many large buildings constructed in the 14th century and before, rest upon a platform of masonry broader than the building it supports. The masonry itself rests upon a bed of puddled clay which shows signs of a powerful artificial compression. These structures show no notable change, while many others of later date, built upon piles, show by numerous cracks the irregular settlements they have incurred. It is said that the tower of St. Mark's docs not rest on piles.

A different method has been adopted for a part of the foundations of the new "Stock Exchange' in Chicago. The foundation is generally upon piles about 50 feet long driven into the hard clay which overlies the rock; next to the ' Herald Building," however, which adjoins it, wells were substituted, lest the shock of the pile driven close to its walls should cause settlement and cracks. A short cylinder feet in diameter, made of steel plates, was first sunk by hand, reaching below the footings of the Herald building. Then around and inside the base of the cylinder, sheet piles about 3 1/2 feet long were driven, and held in place by a ring of steel inside their upper ends. The material inside the sheeting was excavated, and a similar steel ring was placed inside their lower ends; by means of wedges the lower ends of the sheeting were forced back into the soft clay, until another course could be driven outside the lower ring. This operation was repeated until the excavation had reached the hard clay about 40 feet below the cellar, In this material the excavation was continued without sheeting, in the form of a hollow truncated cone to a diameter of 7 1/2 feet, and the entire excavation was filled with concrete. The wells are spaced about 12 feet, the loads upon them vary ; some of them will carry about 200 tons—something less than 4 tons to the square foot. The material excavated was a soft putty-like clay to a depth of 40 feet, where a firm clay was reached, deemed capable of carrying the weight proposed. The rest of the foundation is upon piles spaced 3 feet between centres, to be loaded with about 30 tons per pile, similar piles having been tested to 50 tons at the Chicago Library foundation. They arc driven with a Vasrnyth steam hammer without brooming, are cut off below lake surface, capped and filled in with concrete. A series of short transverse I beams distribute the load transversely, and longitudinal beams prevent local settlements.

The foundations of the Washington monument at Washington have heretofore been well described, but having been commenced in 1848, nosy some 45 years ago, a description of the method employed may not be uninteresting or uninstructive to the younger members of the profession. This structure, when I visited Washington in 1856, had obtained a height of 156 feet. The monument was commenced on a national subscription then limited to $1.00 per head, to afford every citizen the advantage of contributing his mite towards honoring the memory of the great man whose name it bore, and I myself have the honor of being one of the original subscribers, the receipt for which, of the size of an ordinary bank note, engraved on white paper of the consistency of a bank of England note, with a cut of the finished monument at one end of it, I probably still have in one of my souvenir albums. Almost every nation of the earth had contributed a souvenir in the shape of a block of its most precious stone or marble, hearing a fitting inscription, and which were so placed as to be seen and felt and read by every one ascending the inner stairway, reaching, at the time of my visit, to the then top of the structure, and intended to be continued upwards to the full height of 6oo feet then proposed ; while hundreds of similar blocks from all the crowned heads of Europe, not excepting His Holiness the Pope—blocks of solid copper and nearly solid gold and silver and the like, were either in-cased in the monument or lay strewn about the ground awaiting each its turn to do honor to the " Father of his Country," the hero of liberty and independence.

At the date of my visit the works had been for some time interrupted, owing to unequal settlement of the foundation. In 1878, says Hutton, the work which had been in the hands of the Washington Monument Association was turned over to the general Government and completed with money appropriated by Congress. The work as finally constructed is a plain shaft 500 feet high with a pyramidion on top of it 55 feet in height. The shaft is  feet square at the base, 30 feet at top. the interior being say 2i) feet in diameter, and weight over 90,000 tons. The original foundation was of rubble masonry in time mortar, 23 1/3 feet thick and 80 feet square at the base, the footings thus projecting 12 1/2 feet all around beyond the outer tines of shaft. The soil upon which it rested was a sandy clay; 13 feet below this was a bed of gravel. The area of the base was too small, anti the soil under it not sufficiently resisting to carry the final weight. A mass of concrete  13 1/2 feet thick, extending 23 feet 6 inches outside of the old base, and 18 feet under is, increased the bearing surface and carried it down to the gravel. The concrete extended feet under the walls of the shaft itself. 'the construction of this block of concrete under a shaft 556 feet high and weighing 36.0 '0 tons, was a delicate operation, accomplished in this way —On the east and west sides. near corners diagonally opposite, cuts or trenches feet wide and 13 1/2 feet deep were made from the outer lines of the foundation, and extended by tunneling 18 feet t under the face of the old fortification. When completed they were filled with concrete, and other cuts opposite to them were made in like manner, carried under the old base and filled with concrete. [he removal of so much bearing surface in these two tunnels under the old foundation was sufficient to cause motion in the structure, and after this but one etit was made at one time. The work was continued and completed by this system of narrow cuts, which were filled with concrete until the entire sub-base was finished. After this, 10 feet in thickness of the outer part of the old foundation was removed in see ions 10 feet wide and replaced with concrete extending so feet out on the new base.

Being under the impression that when I saw the monument, at that time 156 feet high as stated, it inclined somewhat out of the perpendicular, and as Mr. Hutton in describing the underpinning and strengthening of the foundation did not allude to the fact, I wrote him through the Engineering Record and my letter and his answer appeared in a recent issue of the journal, to the effect that it did incline slightly, but that its rectification was effected through the process of underpinning, though he does not say precisely how. I remember, however, that previously to strengthening the foundations in the manner described, it had been proposed to excavate beneath the monument, introduce a series of upper and under sills of heavy timber with uprights or posts between them, introducing some hundreds of jack-screws and letting down the monument gradually on one side to the level of the other. This process I applied myself in a modified form and on a smaller scale in bringing back to verticality a factory chimney some 8o feet in height at Hook's mills, in Grant street, Quebec. After cutting away a wedge shaped slice of the brick work from beneath the shaft, or between is and its foundation, by means of jack-screws it was let down by so much, the thickness of the wedge sawed out bearing the same proportion to the breadth of base as did the inclination over to the height of shaft, which inclined some two feet from the perpendicular.



Gravel and sand are counted among the incompressible materials for foundations, when prevented from spreading sidewise. The resistance to lateral spreading is usually furnished by the adjacent sand, and when this is

insufficient the surface rises as the building sinks, precisely as water does around a vessel in a lock, with the additional weight of an in-going cargo.

I have said that front faulty foundations several Canadian structures base been wrecked to a considerable extent, hut I shall only here allude to the new Joliette church, from having myself seen it now two years ago, and the blame ought to be fixed somewhere for a fault which it will probably cost all of $10,000 to make good. The tower of this fine edifice, when I saw it, had actually sunk not less than eleven inches below the adjoining masonry of the sides, tearing itself away completely front the adjoining walls or remainder of the facade; and as lateral portions of the facade bad also sunk, though to a less extent, and were bringing down the side or aisle walls of the edifice, the church wardens had the whole front of the facade cut away from the sides to allow of any future sinking of the tower without dragging the sides with it to destruction. The other churches I have mentioned as at Nicolet, St. Casimir and St. Bazile, have been affected I am told, exactly in the same manner, and due to a similar cause, to wit, the omission on the architect's or contractor's part to so proportion the breadth of footings as to cause every square foot thereof to bear an absolutely equal load on such a soil as at Joliette, where there ate some eight feet thick of sandy clay overlying some 20 to 30 feet of mud or of clay of such a soft and semi-liquid nature that anyone can drive an iron rod into it to a depth of 20 feet or more. And this proportioning of the area of footings is such a simple thing to calculate that it is criminal to say the least, to neglect doing it. Again, in this case of the Joliette structure, the foundation I ant told of the tower and remainder of the front elevation were sunk to a greater depth than those of the aisle ssalfs, a very foolish thing to have done, as it left less of the comparatively solid upper stratum of sand between the wooden platform under the walls and the soft clay below, thus increasing the tendency of the heavier walls to penetrate into the soft substratum. Now the architect who planned the structure, it is said, disclaims all responsibility in the premises, as not having been employed to superintend the construction of the building ; and the contractor says that neither is be responsible, as he executed the plans as prepared by the architect, and so between theirs both it appears that the parish will have to foot the bill of reconstructing the whole facade and tower at the parishioners' expense.

I had the honor at our last meeting in Quebec of reading you a paper on the " Necessity of a School of Architecture for the Province of Quebec," or I should more aptly have said, "for Canada as a whole," since similar failures have occurred in Ontario; and now I presume it will not be denied that such a school is of paramount necessity, where an aspiring architect may be taught the importance of sounding and boring the soil be plans to build on, arid in any case where not on solid rock or an unyielding base, not fail to spread his footings in a way to make them truly proportional to the respective weights they will have to bear.

Errors so expensive to make good should not occur again as at St. Bazile, where the walls sank some two feet. and the masonry had to be almost entirely rebuilt at a cost of some $12,000. At Cornwall. the settlement was not less than two feet ten inches, and occurred all at once, I am told, on or during .s single night—the front wall tearing itself away from the remainder of the church and sinking bodily and equally, though, or in a way to allow of making good the levels of the door-ways without the necessity of demolishing and rebuilding the front and tower.

Foundations may be considered the engineering part of architecture, and it is strange and hard to see bow, while an engineer will never aspire to drive a pile or sink a caisson or start the foundations of any structure without sounding the soil he has to build on, an architect can consider himself less liable to the danger of unequal settlement. The Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, in an article in its November issue of last year, insists on this engineering knowledge on the part of architects, and it is to be hoped, that the absolute necessity of the thing will now be seen and not forgotten in the future.

Not settlement is to be guarded against, but solely inequality of settlement its the different portions of a foundation. It is just as easy to erect a heavy structure on a mud foundation and insure its permanent verticality, as to cause a heavy iron-clad to ride at ease and upright in us bed of water. This can be done, as said, by thoroughly proportioning its area of base of each portion of the structure to the weight it has to bear, witch will insure absolute equality of settlement in any homogeneous soil ; but if one or two corners of a structure be on rock or any such unyielding foundation, then becomes it preemptory in the other portions to reach the rock or rest on it by the proxy of piles or pillars driven down to an equally unyielding bottom or if not, to see by trial bow much the soil can bear without sensible compression, and divide the weight, or spread it out over such a number of feet as will meet the requirements of the case. If a reliable bottom is to be reached by piling through a bed of stiff or compact and so to say incompressible sand, it must not be forgotten that material aid can be bad by applying the loosening disintegrating' power of water. I had to do this myself whets boring in 1876 for this tests as to the nature arid impermeability of the soil of river bed to be built on. The sand was so compact that a two or three inch tube could not be drives into it to snore than a few feet without the aid of a jet of water forced down through an inner and smaller pipe, and which loosened and' disintegrated the sand beneath the other pipe in a way that can cause it to sink to a depth of 70 feet to rock bottom, while room was tisade for the advancing pipe or pile or borer by the water forced down, as said, through the inner tube, coming up or returning through the space between the tubes and bringing up the loosened sand with it. Ordinary wooden piles may be driven in the same way through stiff and otherwise unyielding soil, by the use of water under pressure forced down, through a pipe or hose attached to the side of the pile and reaching to its shoe or point, and easily removable, and to be used again on each succeeding pile. This most effective mode of loosening the soil is muab ttsed and has been for some years past, in pursuing excavations under water, and in fact, in all possible situations, and the material removed, it must be remembered, can now, instead of having to be so removed by cartage, be blown away to any distance by forcing it through pipes of adequate size or even rubber or canvas conduits under air pressure, or which is the same thing, by pun ping out the air in front or ahead of the material to be discharged or removed, when the mere atmospheric pressure of over 2.000 pounds to the square foot. blows the stuff along to destination.

The most advanced practice in caisson foundation building, is perhaps that now being pursued in putting in the piers for the American Surety Company's building in course of erection opposite Trinity church, corner of Broadway and Pine street, New York, by Bruce Price, architect of the new Frontenac Hotel, Quebec. These foundations are 70 feet deep to bed rock, while the building of 22 stories, or 360 feet in height above road level, and therefore higher than Trinity church itself, will have a total height of not less than 430 feet, its cost being put down at some $2,000,000. Messrs. Soozsmith & Co. are the engineering firm of contractors. I say "engineering," because now-a-days, the responsibility for solidity and permanency of construction, devolves on the contractors equally with the designing architect. These firms of builders employ the biggest engineering talent, for it must not be believed, as popularly thought, that all the engineering difficulties are its advance wrought out and solved by the designers. on the contrary. Sir Benjamin Baker, in the construction of the Firth bridge, where the twin

