<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

spans are each some 1,700 feet from pier to pier, gives the greatest credit to the contractor's engineers for their many ingenious devices in carrying out the work. In the case under consideration—the American Surety Company's building—there are (13) thirteen brick piers on as many rectangular steel built caissons of 1/2" stuff, braced on the inside. The caisson is 7 feet high beneath the roof of heavy I beams, its sides carried up two feet all around above the roof, with a two feet filling of concrete on which the brick piers rest. The whole foundation was excavated bodily, and taken out down to 20 feet beneath the roadway, at which depth water was reached. The caissons were then put in place—not all of them together, but in alternate series, so as not to risk deranging the foundations of adjoining structures, sunk to a lesser depth than that to be arrived at. To each caisson is applied a tube of oval horizontal section, and of such size, some 3X 5 feet inside drain, in the clear of jointing flanges, as to allow of the men passing up and down, to and from their work, and to give passage to the buckets, go and come, by which the excavated material is raised from within the caisson to the surface. The brickwork upon the caisson progresses as the caisson sinks gradually to destination with its increasing burden of advancing masonry. As the pier advances or is added to in weight, additional lengths of iron shaft, or well, or vertical runnel-way, are added and bolted on, air-tight of course; and as the shaft gains height, the air lock rises with it. The construction and use of the air lock, though presumably well known to all, from having now so often and for so many years been used, as in the construction of piers of the Brooklyn Bridge and elsewhere, is a mere cylinder, a component portion of the shaft, high enough and of sufficient size for several men to stand in at a time, it has an under and an upper door or hatchway, through which the workers in the caisson pass up and down or to and from their work. If there were no water to contend with, the simple shaft way through the pier would be sufficient, the men working under ordinary atmospheric pressure, but the water has to be kept out to allow of excavating to the required depth to reach the rock, The pressure of the incoming water is counteracted, resisted by the pressure of the air from within the caisson outward. This pressure increases with the depth, and hence the necessity of the air hack, wherein, while the ingoing and outgoing gang or band are in it, the pressure of the air, by opening a cock in the floor for the ingoers, one in the roof for the outgoers, is gradually increased or diminished in a way to accommodate the lungs and give no trouble to the individual

—cause him no discomfort, This would seem to be slow work, but on the contrary, it is, under the trying and difficult circumstances, very rapid, when we consider that as much is 52 feet has thus been sunk in a single week, or nearly nine feet per diem, which would entail a delay of only 13 weeks or a little over three months if each pier had to be sunk separately to destination, whereas three to four of the piers can proceed simultaneously, and the work be done in a month or a little more,

In the manipulation of the caissons, great ingenuity is shown, to remove no more earth than that which is vertically under the caisson, to avoid disturbing adjacent buildings. In sinking caissons in river beds, no such precautions have to be observed and the material excavated in semi-fluid state can be blown out instead of bucketed out, as was done in the case of the Brooklyn bridge foundations, where on one side of the river, after the caisson reaching bottom at 40 feet depth of water, there remained 40 feet of sand still to be removed to reach the rock foundation, and this immense mass of some 70 X 100 X 40 feet. say 10,000 cubic yards, was actually blown out by air pressure through the twelve four inch pipes provided for the purpose,—two to each of the six compartments into which each caisson was divided—the pipes running from the floor level of the caisson, through the roof thereof, and up through the masonry as it progressed, with an elbow at the top of each, throwing the stuff out into the river, A caisson for the foundations of a building has also sometimes to be moved laterally, and this ta done and has been done effectively, with its load of brickwork on it, by thrusting it forward by struts and jack-screws From the off-side, while the on-side, or that to which the pier is to be moved, is caused to be gradually worn away by the disintegrating action of water already alluded to. the operation being performed by jets of water under pressure, some of them from above downward, while others as effectively do their work from beneath the lower edge of the caisson upward,



Mr. A. T. Taylor also contributed the following paper:

NOTES ON SOME ASPECTS OF THE CITY OF THE FUTURE.

<article title=" NOTES ON SOME ASPECTS OF THE CITY OF THE FUTURE " author="Taylor, A. T.">

MANY fanciful pictures have been drawn in literature of the condition of man in the future on this earth, most of them with more than a strong tinge of romance. There seems no doubt that in the near future the hygienic conditions of life will be greatly improved, and that the physical surroundings will more and more be laid under tribute to minister to the well-being, comfort and pleasure of mankind, It behooves our profession to be in the forefront of all such movements,

As a population aggregates at particular centres, and crowds together to make up our large towns and cities, problems of how best to house and minister to its physical, mental and higher nature, present themselves for solution to all earnest-minded men, The wise solution of such is not optional, for if neglected or ignored they bring their own Nemesis in misery, disease and death.

In a city's growth there are two elements which go to make the ideal in what we may call its externals, viz.: 1st, wise and comprehensive building by-laws; 2nd, wise and artistic guidance in the laying out and beautifying of its conformation, its buildings and their surroundings and general embellishments. These two aspects concern us very closely as architects, and I think need no apology for being brought before you to-day.

The necessity for the first of those has been more recognized than the second. Most towns of any importance have formulated some kind of building systems to govern the erection of buildings, their general strength and healthiness.

In the case of our own city, the present by-laws have been amended from time to time, and are still somewhat inadequate, so that it is felt by many that the rinse has come when an entirely new building by-law should be prepared; and as you have heard from the Secretary's Report to-day, a Committee of our Association is working upon this at the present time. It is no easy work—nay, it is impossible, to frame such laws as to please everybody, or to cover every possible contingency; but it should be the desire of such a committee to frame theta so that good building—both as regards materials and workmanship, may be the result, and bad building discouraged. It naturally, of course, follows that such laws require to be enforced, and they will need firm and judicious enforcement.

Many new materials are employed and many new modes of building adopted, so that building laws of to-day require to be more extensive and all-embracing than of old. It is proverbial that a skilful, and if there is such a thing, an unscrupulous lawyer, can drive a coach-and-six through any Act of Parliament. and it is difficult to make by-laws that unscrupulous jerry builders arid dishonest contractors may not evade, or that ignorant and stupid men— architects in nothing but the name—may not stumble and blunder over. It is in checkmating the one and helping the other that these laws will be roost useful, and with the plumbing by-laws recently enacted, incorporated, the result should be a reduction in the death rate. fewer fires, healthier homes, and greater peace and contentment. Only in a very general way can such

by-laws take cognizance of the design and appearance of the buildings. Were it possible to get a proper authority, thoroughly competent, to criticise and pass judgment upon all designs of buildings to be erected, it would no doubt be an advantage to the appearance of our streets, and such abortions and hideous eccentricities as we are all, unfortunately, too familiar with, would never see the light. But this authority would have to give the widest latitude in choice of style. and any special predilection on the part of such authority in favor of any particular style would have to be controlled. The tendency of all such tribunals is to stereotyped forms, which would have to be avoided, but the careful selection by such a tribunal of men of undoubted ability, but with opposite predilections as to styles, &c., would effectually check this. Personally I am in favor of such a tribunal, but such must be selected, not for political service or as nominees of any party, but for their recognized artistic knowledge and ability.

In Europe certain restrictions as to the height of buildings have long been in vogue :—Thus, in Paris, no front wall on any street can be higher than 65 ft.; in Vienna the limit is about 77 ft., and in London, in new streets less than 50 ft. wide, the height of a building must not exceed its distance from the opposite side of the street. The wisdom of such rules is now being recognized by our neighbors across the border, where "sky scrapers" have so flourished as to utterly destroy the unity and symmetry of the streets; and enactments are being passed its some cities limiting the heights of buildings. It may be that in the near future some such enactment will be necessary in our own city.

In France, I understand, they go further than this, and the municipal authorities of the cities have supreme control over the treatment of the exterior of buildings—the style of architecture adopted, etc.

I referred to this danger of stereotyped forms in designs controlled by a tribunal of fixed predilections, and I would take the opportunity of referring in this connection to a similar and more imminent and grievous danger in connection with the designs of all government buildings emanating from a department of the government. A well-timed letter front one of our profession in Ottawa appeared in the last number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, which all would do well to read. The systems has been felt -to be unsupportable in the States, and, as you all know, a bill has recently been passed to throw open the designing of public buildings to the profession at large. Without disparaging in any way either our Dominion or Provincial governments architects, I think I will have the unanimous support of all, when I say that, in the nature of the case, better results would follow if wise selections of architects were made from the profession at large for such buildings.

We pass on to the second aspect, viz: Wise and artistic guidance in the laying out, beautifying and embellishment of the streets, parks, buildings and surroundings of a city. This has been grievously neglected, Cities have been allowed to grow either at haphazard, like our own city, and then millions of dollars expended on widening the streets and cutting new ones through dense population; or have been laid out in simple grid-iron plan, as prosaic arid inartistic as iris possible to imagine. The relation of a building to ins site and the relation of the site to the building, has been too often ignored by authorities and by architects. An example of the first, I may cite the new Boston Public Library, which is, to my view, very unsatisfactory in relation to its environment; and as examples of the second, I may refer to nearly all of our public buildings, which are planted down without any regard to vistas, or of being made central features in our streets. Paris is a notable exception to this, and in the laying out of her squares, gardens and streets, and in the arrangement of her public buildings and monuments, she is an example to the world.

On this continent, Washington is perhaps the best laid out city for such effects as I have named. All cities of the future, which are not simply the development of the cowpath of the country and the lane of the village, will be laid out with some regard to numerous open spaces, radiating boulevards and noble buildings, placed in such positions as to afford beautiful vistas. There will be more gardens and parks, because men will have learnt that these are greater moral factors in the well-being of mankind, than crowded tenements and low saloons.



Charming effects in cities are often obtained by curved streets of large radii. Who has not delighted in the windings of the Strand and Fleet Street in London, or endorsed Wordsworth's ecotniumon the beautiful High Street, of Oxford, when he describes it as "The stream-like windings of that glorious street ?"



I have touched on the designing of public and government buildings. I would like to venture a word or two on the selection of our monuments, statues, and the embellishment generally of our streets. public squares, etc.

Is it not the truth, that very few of these are satisfactory to a cultured taste? In nearly all large cities and towns, monuments, statues, &c,, are often so inartistic, so unworthy of their position, that we are led to wonder what dreadful crime the unfortunate man committed that he should thus be held tip to the ridicule and pity of future generations. We are not wholly innocent of examples of these ourselves—may, in many respects we are very guilty. Under existing arrangements, is it surprising that this should be? It would be surprising if it were otherwise. The selection and arrangements for these memorials and adornments are generally in the hands of men—very worthy, no doubt, but nor educated in art, and therefore not capable of deciding such matters, It is extraordinary how intelligent men will wisely consult lawyers on all legal questions, doctors on matters of health, engineers on matters of drainage, hydraulics and machinery, but on matters of art and taste, think they are quite capable of judging for them-selves.

I have long cherished the dream, that in the city of the future, all such questions will be relegated to a special artistic authority or tribunal, who will decide such matters. Is it too much to hope that this may be realized in the near future in our own city? This is by no means a Utopian idea, for such a scheme has already been put into operation in Boston, where they have succeeded in getting an Art Committee appointed to supervise all such matters as I have spoken of, There the Committee is composed of five members, who serve without any remuneration and consist of the following:

The Mayor of the city, the Chairman of the Trustees of the Public Library, the President of the Institute of Technology, the President of the Art Museum and the President of the Society of Architects, Would it lie possible to have such a Committee appointed here? It seems to me that some of our worthy aldermen must be exceedingly perplexed, when they try honestly and conscientiously to decide matters of taste and art, and that they would gladly hail the assistance of such an Art Committee, who could give an

exhibit on these things.

We have made marvelous progress in art matters in the last few years, but there is much still to be accomplished if we wood nor be outstripped by other cities.

The art attainment of a people is a measure of their civilization. I think it is quite within our province as an association of architects to rake the first step in endeavoring to have such a tribunal appointed. The members might consist of say, the Mayor, the President of the Art Association, the President of the Royal Academy or some representative of the same, the

President of the Association of Architects, and say a representative from the

