<doctype type="text">Canada during the fiscal year 1892-3, and obviously therefore there is ample room for home manufacture to grow. With raw material so abundant and accessible, and with capital seeking new channels of investment, and labor seeking employment, why should we not produce in the country all the Portland cement that our market requires. An article of uniform quality will always be in request by customers, and with care on the part of the manufacturer there is no reason why he should not be successful in supplying a distinct brand. But as long as we are dependent on foreign makers we cannot hope to he supplied with cement of uniform quality, for where larger orders have to be filled it is a common practice even if large mill owners to buy lots from other manufacturers and so make a prompt shipment. The result is that there are as many brands as makers, and with cements of different qualities, some quick setting and some slow setting, it is hardly possible to make a first-rate concrete. This is a risk which may easily be avoided if orders are placed at home, with the home manufacturer, and the good results obtained from our Ontario cements are no doubt due to the fact that orders are honestly made up, each manufacturer being jealous of his own reputation.

As regards the products of clay, it is not necessary that much should be said. Taking the various articles of common and pressed bricks, terra cotta, tile, sewer pipe, and pottery, the number of men employed in their manufacture in Ontario last year was 3,109, with earnings of $601,686. The aggregate value of their products was $1,684,873, or more than one-fourth of all the mineral products of the Province in the same year. This fact alone suffices to prove the importance of our clay industries yet it is obvious that they are capable (if greater development. The manufacture of pressed brick and terra cotta began here only five years ago, and last year, in spite of the collapse in the building trade, the value of the output of six works was $217,373. It gave employment to 224 workmen, and paid them wages to the amount of $8o, -

686.	The improvement already noticeable in the architecture of our cities as a consequence of the use of pressed brick and terra cotta is bringing this material fast into favor, and it may be said that the earth affords no better building material than a properly burnt brick, and none which so readily lends itself to the production of handsome architectural effects. In the strong and fine-textured shales of our Hudson river and Medina formations, conveniently situated and easily quarried, Ontario is favored above most Provinces and States in America.

The same shales are also found to be suitable for the manufacture of sewer pipe, with proper mixtures, and last year the output of two establishments employed in this industry was $230,000.

Another clay industry is now on the eve of commencement, and if successfully established it promises to be a great boon to our towns and cities, viz: the manufacture of vitrified brick for street paving. In Ohio, Illinois, Iowa and other American States, this has grown to be a very important industry, and it is supplying a material for street construction which on all points of merit is not equalled by any other material hitherto employed for the purpose. Many mistakes were committed by the first makers of paving brick, and there is much yet to be learned as to the clays or clay mixtures which give the best results, as well as to the proper degree and duration of heat to produce a hard, tough and impervious brick. But much is already known, and with careful experiments and close observation many works are enabled to produce with regularity a high percentage of paving brick of uniform quality from every charge of a kiln. A number of experiments have recently been made in Toronto, Hamilton and elsewhere in this Province, and although each expert will assure you that he alone knows the secret, and that no one else has the clays for a right mixture but himself, you may rest assured that in a matter of this sort the key and the ward are not so hard to match as the tribe of experts would have you believe. In several instances encouraging progress has been made, especially with the Medina and Hudson River shales.

We may, therefore, I think, look with confidence to an early beginning of the production of paving brick in Ontario; and when that time comes we shall no longer be at the mercy of trust concerns like the owners of Pitch Lake asphalt, as illustrated the other day in the case of a contract for paving in the city of Hamilton. When we are producing Portland cement from our own shell marls and clays to the full extent in which it is required for street concrete, and paving brick from our own shales to cover the concrete, we shall be as independent as we ought to be in supplying ourselves with the materials of such everyday requirements as are called for in the building of good roads. In so doing also, we shall be utilizing our raw materials of clay and lime, otherwise of no value, finding profitable investments for capital lying idle in the banks, and giving employment to hundreds, if not thousands, of men who for lack of work to do are finding it hard to win their daily bread.

With one suggestion to the professors and instructors in the School of Practical Science, Toronto, and the School of Mining, Kingston, I close. Reference has been made to the experiments conducted by the manufacturers of brick and cement, preliminary to the building of works to commence production on a commercial scale. These experiments demand patience, exactness and scientific method, as well as the use of costly appliances. Why should they not be taken up in our technical schools, where there are professors having the necessary expert knowledge and training, and the appliances for making tests and ascertaining results with unerring accuracy? The importance of the clay industry has been so well recognized by the State Legislature of Ohio, that a course of practical and scientific instruction in the art of clay-making and ceramics has been added to the educational work of the state University, and the first term of the department opened yesterday. Work of that character is as much needed in Ontario as in Ohio, and the professors of our scientific schools cannot too soon prepare to enter upon it.



DISCUSSION 

Mr. R. W. Prittie said he had been for a number of years interested in the brick industry, particularly in the manufacture of paving brick. This article was coming largely into use in the States, and he had seen pavements which had been down for 16, 18 and 20 years, with but little repairs. It was giving the utmost satisfaction, and made a superior pavement in every respect, being smooth, lasting. easily cleaned, and affording a good foothold for horses. lie was interested ma large vitrified brick factory which had been started at the Humber, near Toronto,

last year, and was got partially under way when the financial crash on the other side affected the enterprise and brought it temporarily to a stop. He hoped, however, that the operations would yet be begun. It was the company's intention to put up a plant capable of turning out 50 millions of brick per annum, and employing 400 men.

Dr. A. P. Coleman, in reference to a remark in Mr. Blue's paper, thought it only fair to say on behalf of the School of Practical Science, that they had begun the work of testing cement, brick and similar materials. If provided with proper appliances, the authorities of the School were perfectly willing to engage even more extensively in such work.

Mr. J. Latimer asked if there had been any development in fire clay, Mr. Blue—Not in Ontario.

Mr. Bell There are good deposits of fire clay in Nova Scotia, but they are not made use of.

Mr. J. M. Clarke said it was well known that the manufacture of articles like vitrified brick in Ontario had engaged the attention of outsiders more than the peop1e of the province. Outsiders were now investigating the subject with the view of beginning the manufacture of paving brick here.



<article title=" BEARING POWER OF FOUNDATIONS " author="">

BEARING POWER OF FOUNDATIONS.



From the valuable note-book of Mr. E. L. Corthell, of the Western Society of Engineers, we have been permitted to extract the following data respecting the bearing power of foundations.

Clay. From 2 to 8 or 9 tons per square foot, without allowance for friction.

Sand.—-The different kinds vary greatly in bearing power. Sand mixed with loam will not bear more than 5 tons per square foot. 9.3 tons per square foot were placed on fine gravel and sand at Urk viaduct masonry piers on cylinders 4.8 inch diameter; friction neglected.

In India, on coarse sand in deep foundations, not over 9 tons are used.

In experiments 20 tons have been put on sand without measurable settlement.

Friction.—Side friction varies from 200 to 6oo pounds per square foot.

All the above are in gross tons=2,240 pounds.—B. Baker, April '7, 1888.

Clay.—-Black Friars Bridge, 5 tons per square foot. Settled badly.—Randall Hunt, Engineering and Building Record, June 23, 1888.

New London Bridge, 5 tons per square foot on piles,=80 tons per pile. Settled badly.

Newcastle-on-Tyne, tons per square foot no settlement.

Fargo, Dakota, four-story budding, 213 tons per square foot failed. Then 1/2 tons per square foot no settlement.

Cleveland, new viaduct, to 1.7 tons per square foot.

Washington Monument, 9 tons per square foot, inside edge. Clay and sand, 3 tons per square foot outside edge.

Sand.—Coney Island pier, tons per square foot.

New York Steam Company's chimney, 4 tons per square foot on fine sand settled.

Brooklyn Bridge anchorage, 4 tons per square foot.

Nantes Bridge, 6.8 tons per square foot settled.

Berlin, considered safe, 2.3 tons per square foot.

Sometimes used to 4.1 tons per square foot.

Albany Capitol, 2 tons per square foot; settled.

Cairo Bridge, fatigue weight

Channel piers, 3.34 tons per square foot.

River Piers, 33.08 tons per square foot.

Friction on sides taken at 4,000 pounds per square foot fine sand.

Sioux City, Pier III ; sand, 2.64 tons per square foot.

Soft Soil.—India, one ton per square foot used—Journal of the Association of Engineering Societies.



<article title=" To TEST WHITE LEAD " author="">

To TEST WHITE LEAD. —Those who desire to test in a practical way the merits of white lead will find some useful hints in the instructions issued by an American Association of Master Painters. Substantially it is as follows :—Coat a board primed in ochre with a mixture of one ounce of oil and two ounces of lead. Then put on a second coat over the entire face of board, excepting a small portion in the middle. When this is done, put a third coat over all, excepting another small space, with a mixture also of one ounce of oil and four ounces of lead. Allow one week to elapse between each coat, an(l the boards while in an upright position. The board will, when finished, have been painted as follows In the middle there will be a narrow space showing ochre priming, and on the left of it another similar space of one coat of lead; on the right of the ochre priming space, as well as on the left of the one coat space, will be similar small spaces, each being covered with two coats, and on the right and left respectively (if these will be a larger space, covered with three coats. After the last coat has been on three or four days, place the boards where they will get a southern exposure, and if put over a roof at least two feet above same. If the boards are dry to the touch, they should be placed out of doors for a day or two between coats. The brush should be used to finish the mixing, and the boards should not be sandpapered. The test being one of comparison a separate board must be painted with each of the leads about to be tested. It will not be necessary to use a separate brush for each board if there are so many of them. Benzine is chosen as being more volatile than turpentine to wash out the brushes. Keep the brushes in oil when not in use. The test is intended principally as one of durability, and as after long exposure the covering qualities of the different leads will not be easily determined, they should be noted at the outset.

