<doctype type="text">

<article title=" EARLY ENGLISH MOULDINGS " author="">EARLY ENGLISH MOULDINGS.

The exquisite skill, taste and patient labor invariably evinced in the working of early English mouldings are truly admirable, says a foreign exchange. The ingenuity that was never at a loss in any difficulty of finish or constructive irregularity, and the minuteness with which even the most concealed and darkened parts were executed, are circumstances of much interest, and show a love for the art above the sordid considerations of minimum Cost. The deepest hollows are all as cleanly and perfectly cut as the most prominent and conspicuous details and in the village church as much so as in the most glorious cathedral. An early English doorway is often a wonderful piece of art, however little it may attract the attention of ordinary observers. It is most pleasing to notice the long train of dog-tooth lurking in the (lark furrow of a label or channeled recess to see the end of some inconvenient member got rid of by throwing a flower across the point where it suddenly stops or dies into the wall ; to admire the floriated boss and the foliaged capital intruding their luxuriance upon the mouldings and hollows, as if they had overgrown their original and proper limits. How beautifully, too, the knots of pierced and hanging leaves extend like some petrified garland or bower of filigree work round the arch, dividing the plainer moldings into groups, and almost imparting life and vegetation to the very stones. There is an abundance of doorways of this style which exhibit the

most delightful varieties in their forms and groupings always, yet never, the same. Some examples occur at Bolton and Furness abbeys, whose arch moldings extend five or six feet in with. The west fronts of several of our cathedrals have Early English doorways of amazing magnificence. The entrance doorway of the chapter house at Lichfield is a very fine example of the moulding of this style. But almost every cathedral and every ruined abbey will supply good specimens.





<article title=" THE STRENGTH OF BRICK " author="">THE STRENGTH OF BRICK.

Here is a graphic illustration of the Statement made by <person>Mr. Williams </person>in his paper on Vitrified Brick, read before the 7th Annual Convention of the National Brick Manufacturer's Association of the United Stores Touching on the progress of brickmaking in the United States, he quotes from Trautwine, the statement that a column of brick six hundred feet high would crush itself. He takes a test of the crushing

 strength of annealed brick, and shows that

0

a column ten thousand feet high is required to crush itself while a column of

	~.	granite of similar dimensions would crush

		itself at a height of eighty-one hundred

		feet. Verily this is a striking illustration

		of the superiority of the machine made

		brick of to-day over those made in former

		years, and is proof that the craft is pro-

0

	I                   gressing. What industrial art can show

		an equal advance in the quality of manu-

		factured products? This illustration of

	8	the relative height that a column of cer-

		tain dimensions may be built of the ma

terials named will give a better idea of the

superiority of vitrified or annealed brick

thin is generally prevalent, even among those who are informed on the subject.



<article title=" LEGAL DECISIONS " author="">LEGAL DECISIONS.

In the case of Sieyes versus Cure Sentenne et al, recently decided at Montreal, plaintiff was leased the premises now occupied by the <firm>Compagnie Generale des Bazars</firm>, but lie was not allowed to enter on the date fixed. He sued and was awarded $1497.84 as damages. Cure Sentenne then sued the contractors in warranty and they were condemned to pay this amount, together with the sum of $525 costs.



<article title=" DAMAGE FROM DROPPING OF MORTAR " author="">DAMAGE FROM DROPPING OF MORTAR.—Where a person sustains damage by the dropping of mortar and bricks during the erection of a wall next to the premises occupied by her, the party for whom the wall was being erected is not liable for such damage, but the contractor would be, f any one, if it was not a necessary result of the building of the wall, but was caused by the negligence of the contractor or of his servants. The injury caused by dust arising from the dumping of loads of brick near a person's residence might be so trifling as not to be actionable, or there might be evidence of such excessive and long-continued annoyance therefrom as to warrant the submission of the question of damage caused thereby to the jury. Pye v. Faxon, Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, 31 N. E. Rep.,

640.

<article title=" PAGE V. DEFOE; BROWN V. DEFOE; ASHDOWN V. DEFOE " author="">PAGE V. DEFOE; BROWN V. DEFOE; ASHDOWN V. DEFOE.

J Judgment on motion by the defendant in all three cases, which were tried together <person>before MacMahon, J.</person>, and a jury, at Toronto,

to set aside the judgment for the plaintiffs and to enter judgment for the defendant; or for a new trial of the action. The defendant was the owner of a storage warehouse in the city of Toronto which collapsed and destroyed the plaintiffs' goods therein stored. The defendant contended that the collapse was not due to any negligence on his part, but, as the evidence showed, to the dry rot in a portion of the timber, for which he was not responsible, having exercised due care in converting the building from its former use as a billiard table factory and in the selection of the material for that purpose. The court held that the collapse was duets dry rot unknown to the defendant, and that there was no negligence on his part. Motion granted and actions dismissed with costs. Leave given to carry ill the cases I to the Court of Appeal together, if one of them is appealed, and

if the amount in question in any is too small for an appeal, leave granted to appeal.

<article title=" SMITH V. FORT WILLIAM SCHOOL BOARD " author="">SMITH V. FORT WILLIAM SCHOOL BOARD. Judgment in I <building>Chancery Court, Toronto</building>, in action tried ;[t Port Arthur.

Action by a resident freeholder, ratepayer and elector, and a supporter of the Public Schools in the town of Fort Williarn, on I behalf of himself and all other ratepayers of Fort William except the ratepayers, against the Public School Board of the town, certain individual members of the board, and <firm>Robertson & Ross</firm>, I contractors, for an injunction to restrain the defendants from proceeding with the erection of a school building in the town, and to compel the repayment to the school corporation of certain sums of money paid by the individual members of the board to the contractors for the work. The learned judge holds that the school board if a city, town, or incorporated village have no power to enter into any contract for the building of a school house until the necessary funds have been provided under section 116 of the Act of 1891, and that if a certain sum has been provided under that section for the purpose of building a school-house they cannot be allowed to enter into any contract or undertake any work involving the expenditure of any greater sum, and therefore that the contract into which the School Board in this case entered was beyond their powers, and not binding upon them. Injunction made perpetual as prayed. If the work done is of some value to the board as the foundation of a smaller building or otherwise, they are to make an allowance for it, to be ascertained by the local judge at Port Arthur. The defendants other than the School Board to pay back to the School Board the whole of the $2,625 paid on account of the contract, with interest from the time of payment, less such sum, if any as the referee shall find for the allowance as above. The defendants other than the School Board to pay the plaintiff's costs of the action.



<article title=" ENGLISH AND ITALIAN BRICKWORK " author="">ENGLISH AND ITALIAN BRICKWORK.

Early English brickwork is now rare. Little <building>Wenbain Hall</building>, Suffolk, of the latter part of the 13th century, shows, says the Clay Record, different sizes of brick these are mixed with stone and flint in parts. The brick are of Flemish shape, though some resemble Roman brick or tiles, and the color varies. We must turn to the Eastern counties for examples of English brickwork. In many of these flint is introduced in the form of panels, and this kind of walling is known as "flush work." Nearly every important church is of this mixture of brick or stone and flint. <building>Layer Marney Hall</building>, Essex, is a noted example of brickwork. The great gatehouse of three stories, flanked by octagonal turrets, with battlements and parapets, and window mullions, exhibits an advanced stage of brickmaking and workmanship. Respecting the size of English bricks, those at Little Wenham Hall measure 9 3/4 inches in length by 4 3/4 inches wide and 2 1/4 inches thick. Those made in <person>Edward VI'</person>s time measure to and 12 inches long by 5 and 6 inches wide. The "great brick" of 1374, measured 12 inches long, 6 inches wide, and 3 inches thick. Portions of Hampton Court Palace show some beautiful examples of English brickwork, to which the attention of the student may be directed.

The late Mr. Street, a great authority upon Italian brickwork, points out in his work on "Brick and Marble Architecture" to what a large extent red brick is used with stone. Italian brick are rather larger than ours, but not of better quality; the joints are wide, generally not less than half an inch. The brick used for windows, doorways, and other ornamental features are of finer quality and moulding.

Those who know Italian examples of brick arches and tracery are aware that the cusping of arches is of brick, set in the same radiating lines as the arch, and cut and rubbed to the outline required. He says " In nearly all cases where brick is used for tracery, it is in the shape of plate tracery. The tympanum of the arch is filled in with a mass of brickwork, through which ale

pierced the arches over the several lights of the window, and these are supported on marble or stone shafts, with carved capitals instead of monials ; and above these sometimes, as in the windows of St. Andrea, Mantua, are three cuspid circles, sometimes only one ; or else as in the cathedral of Cremona, the plain brick tampanum is relieved by the introduction of a panel of terra-cotta, bearing the cross on a shield, whilst round its outer circumference delicately treated though large cusping defines the outline of the arch." Outside the arch sometimes a red brick label 4 inches wide is introduced. In Mantua and Asti these narrow bricks are set between rings of brick and stone voussoirs.

