<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



pupils, following their courses under the guidance of Messrs. Henry J. Peters and P. N. Picard, both architects actually engaged in the practice of their profession. in this class, although mostly intended for carpenters, builders, cabinet makers, etc., the instruction is, however, adapted as far as possible to the requirements of the pupils. Exercises are given in geometry and projection, and pupils are instructed in the details of framing, plans and elevations of buildings, and the preparation of working drawings. Several architectural students I have noticed are following this course. Ibis class meets on Mondays and Fridays from 7.30 to 9.30 pm.

Next to this class is the pattern making class for boot and shoe makers, which probably does not interest us very much. This class also meets every Monday and Friday, with Mr. Jos. Godin as professor. It is established for the purpose of giving practical instruction for the study and practice of artistic pattern cutting for boots and shoes of all kinds.

In the building situated at the right hand side of Fortification Lane, which is about of the same style as the one first mentioned, is on the ground floor the modelling and wood carving class, two very important factors in architectural decoration. The room occupied by this class, although small in size and of very plain appearance, has an artistic look about it with it's plaster models of Renaissance compositions hung on the wall, and statues and busts of historical personages reposing on pedestals. ibis class is intended to give instruction to all who use the chisel, but more particularly to marble and stone cutters, wood carvers, etc. The pipe clay which is used in modelling can be softened as often as required, thus enabling the pupil to work with ease and rapidity, obtain quick results, and become familiar with form; he first gives to the mass of clay the rough outline of the object he desires to reproduce, and then finishes it by the aid of the tools. The clay required is provided free of charge, Pupils who join this class have to be well up in freehand drawing, but in the case of stone cutters this condition is not rigidly exacted. I believe that this is the class

that could do the most towards developing the artistic taste of the students, especially the students of architecture, affording as it does the opportunity to study with advantage the human figure, which is so essential a part of the education of every artist. This class, notwithstanding its importance, possesses only 18 students, five of whom are devoting themselves to wood carving. It is open every Tuesday and Friday from 7.30 to 9.3o p.m. under the supervision of Mr. J. 0. Gratton, sculptor.

Now pass on to the Stair Building and Building Construction Class, a department of interest to builders and architectural students who wish to gain knowledge of a practical character. The class is composed of 26 pupils, headed by Prof. L. H. Bloom, who teaches them all matters connected with construction of buildings, and who gets them to make plans for stairs and other work, and execute the same in the class rooms adjoining the Modelling Class. Special attention is given to the important branch of stair building. Tools and materials are provided by the school free of charge.

On the first floor of this building, over the Modelling and Stair Building Classes, is the Freehand Drawing Class—one of the most important at the school—both as regards the work it accomplishes and the number of students who attend it's courses. This department is tinder the charge of Professor E. Dyonnet. A.R.C.A., and is divided into two classes—the elementary and the advanced class. The elementary class is for those who have but a vague idea of drawing, and is intended as preparatory to the advanced class. The pupils begin by drawing differently shaped geometrical blocks, commencing with the most simple, and progressing to more complicated shapes. This method of drawing from solids from the very first has been generally adopted in all the best drawing schools of Europe. It shows the pupil in a more intelligible way than any oilier method, the first difficulties of outline, perspective, light and shade and tone, and as the pupil's intelligence is appealed to, there is comparatively little difficulty in showing him how these difficulties are to be overcome. After one season spent in the elementary class, the pupil who has made sufficient progress is promoted to the advanced class. He soon finds out that the principles he has learned in the first year are continually applied in the second, His eye and hand now gain sufficient accuracy and precision to enable him to draw parts of the figure from plaster casts. The simplest pieces are given at first, but as difficulties are overcome, more complicated ones are tried, until the full length antique figure is reached, after which he will soon be prepared to draw directly from the living model. This department is composed of about 30 pupils, who meet on Monday and Thursday for the Elementary Class, and Tuesday and Friday for the Advanced Class.

On Tuesday and Thursday pupils composing the Mechanical Drawing Class have their courses in the rooms occupied on Mondays and Fridays by the Architectural Drawing Class. The class is conducted by Messrs. J. T. Gardham and J. Clement. It is chiefly intended for those who follow mechanical pursuits, and to apprentices and others connected with machine building it proves to be of great value. It is aimed to make the instruction of a thoroughly practical character. Blue prints and figured sketches of familiar details of machine design are supplied, front which the pupils are required to make general drawings, etc., and to follow as far as possible the usual office practice.

This completes the number of classes contained in the two buildings forming the angles of St. Gabriel Street and Fortification Lane. On the other side of St. Gabriel Street, opposite the school, and adjoining the Champs de Mars, is old St. Gabriel Church, an historical relic of the last century. It was built in 1792, and is the first Protestant church built in Montreal. It is now the property of the Provincial Government, and is occupied to-day by the Plumbing Class of this school. It has been used during the past few years by the Decorative Painting Class, which was abandoned this year.

There are two professors—Messrs. W. Britton and J. A. Peard. The class is under the immediate charge of a Committee of the Master Plumbers' Association recently formed, and which I hear will apply at the next session of the Legislature for an act of incorporation. The class has an actual attendance of about 45 pupils, and meets every Monday and Friday from 7.30 to 9.30 p.m. The class has been arranged for apprentices, journeymen and foremen engaged in any branch of plumbing. The class room is equipped for about fifty pupils, each member having a gas furnace for melting solder and a drawer for holding tools. Instruction is given on such subjects as lead bossing, pipe bending, soldering and wiping joints, lead burning, water closets and their fittings, water waste preventors, baths, lavatories and sinks, taps, soil pipes, connection of drain to sewer, ventilation of soil pipes and drains, sizes of pipes, etc.; water supply, house cisterns, their construction, position and management; the use of tools, etc., etc. All materials are supplied free of charge.

It is in old St. Gabriel church that every year is held art exhibition of the most creditable examples of the work accomplished by the pupils of the different classes of the school during the session. As the pupils are at present just commencing the session, it is difficult to judge of their merit by their work, as they have hardly had time to do any yet, but I propose at the next annual exhibition of the school, which in all probability will be held as usual in April, to give a description of the principal works executed by the pupils during the present session.

BUILDING ACCIDENT. <article title=" BUILDING ACCIDENT " author="">

The roof of a six storey building in course of erection at the corner of Craig Street and Place d'Armes Hill, for the Montreal Street Railway Company, fell in a few days ago. All but three of the twenty-one workmen employed on the roof at the time received sufficient warning of the approaching accident to enable them to safely reach the walls before the crash came. The others were carried down with the roof. Two of them are reported to have died front their injuries. Messrs. J. W. & E. C. Hopkins are the architects of the building. Ald. Dubuc is the contractor for the stone work, AId. Brunet for the brickwork, Ald, Robert for the woodwork, and the Dominion Bridge Co. for the structural iron. All sorts of causes are being assigned for the accident, but 1 prefer not to mention any of them prior to the investigation, which I understand will shortly be held.



<article title=" RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS " author="">

RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS.



Patent No, 47,069, has been granted to Jules Colas, Montreal, for a draining well.

Louis Rosenfield, New York, has been given a patent No. 47,064, for a hoisting apparatus.

A patent No. 47,044, for a door knots, has been granted to Albert E. White, Dutton, Out.

Messrs. Darling Bros., Montreal, have been granted a patent, No. 46,961, for a combined bracket and shelf.

A patent No. 47,070 for an elevator brake, has been secured by Ernst C. Haydenreich, Mount Clemens, Mich.

John Heard, Strathroy, Ont., has been given a patent on moulds for forming concrete into pipes for drains, &c.

Patent No.46,969 has been granted to Geo. Belanger and others of Quebec, for a cement formed of quartz and other substances.

Samuel John Laughlin and James Hough, of Guelph, Ont., have received a patent No, 47,003, for a sketching and designing table.

A patent on apparatus for repairing asphalt pavements, was granted on Sept. - 20th, to the Western Paving and Supply Co., Chicago.

Jas. Peckover. Harrisburg, and John E. Johnson, Philadelphia, Pa,, have obtained a patent dated 24th Sept., 1894. on a stone sawing machine.

Theophile E. Ayotte and Arthur A. Charhonneau, Montreal, were given a patent, Sept. 26th, on a process for making brick and artificial stone,

Hugh C. Baird and Oliver Baird, of Parkhill, Ont., assignees of Tames and Eli Elliott, of Wingham, Ont., have obtained a patent No. 47,054, on a brick and tue machine.

Charles H. Dalrymple, Detroit, Mich., and Chas. E. Hassey, Hamilton, Ont., have been granted a patent, No, 47,031, on a roofing composition, consisting of sheets of wood fibre, rendered impervious to moisture, and having abutting up-turned edges, the battens provided with a groove in their outer edge which receives the up-turned edges of these sheets to close the joints.



PUBLICATIONS.



The Review of Reviews for November, has some pertinent notes on European politics and editorial tributes to the memory of Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes and Professor David Swing, of Chicago.

''The Art Schools of America," The Great British Northwest territory, -' The Chiefs of the American Press," and the " Public Library Movement," are amongst the Cosmopolitan's table of contents for November.



A correspondent of the Illustrated Carpenter and Builder expresses the opinion that the best form of roof for a cottage, if expense is not a consideration, is to cover the rafters with 3/4in. dry boarding, and over this nail a layer of inodorous felt; then rotates a row of vertical battens fixed to top of rafters, then the ordinary slate battens. The old slates may he reused, if sound and fit for reuse, and, in fact, may he preferable to new ones in some cases.

