<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE BUILIDINGS OF THE DOMINION " author="STALKER, G. F. ">THE BUILIDINGS OF THE DOMINION.

By G. F. STALKER.

T0 what extent and in what manner the government is justified in encouraging by substantial aid, the

development of art depends upon a variety of circumstances. The possession, however, of galleries of art treasures and of fine buildings is an unmistakable evidence of national culture and progress

and no country having any pretension to greatness can afford :o be without them. The balance sheet of the finance minister is, after all, only a temporary index of national solvency. We most look into a different ledger for the indelible marks which show the onward or backward movement of the people. But the finance minister and every other minister, can do a vast amount to foster and develop such thoughts and feelings as will ineffably impress themselves on the national character, and find expression in works of art which will be an indication to future generations of our standing as a people.

The ministers of the crown in this country are the chosen leaders of the people, and they like to be spoken of as such. But they are, in many instances, only the followers of public sentiment. Ideas and schemes, which on the face of them have the stamp of necessity (sometimes of urgency), are pot on one side because there has been no public demand for them and so much valuable time is wasted in weary waiting for the great unwieldy mass of the people to meet together, formulate their ideas, and submit their wishes to those in authority. All this seems just the reverse of what it ought to be. The wise leaders, whose names have come down to us, have been men who, being in advance of their time, have educated the people up to their ideas, and legislated and acted without the necessity of everrecurring agitation and turmoil.

At present we want one or more of the ministers to strike out and take the lead in national art matters. The course is perfectly clear, and whoever steps into it will have the satisfaction of knowing that the laurels which he will gain will not be plucked from the brow of any of his contemporaries, nor from the chaplet of any of his predecessors.

It is, of course, freely admitted that there are difficulties in the way, the chief one being that we belong to a somewhat utilitarian race. The British people have never been too lavish in expending money on mere works of art," and it has taken a long time to bring them to acknowledge the refining influences of the beautiful and pore in art, upon the national character. But this is admitted now, and leading men throughout the empire lose no opportunity (if impressing this truth upon us. In fact, if we look at the matter fairly, the encouragement of art by the national government is really utilitarian in its effect. The national advancement and refinement are a quid pro quo for the national expenditure.

A slight indication of the way the wind is blowing was given during the last session of the Dominion Parliament. While the estimates were being discussed the Minister of Interior asked for a beggarly sum of one or two thousand dollars for the annual expenses of the National Gallery, when from an unexpected quarter a loud complaint was raised because the sum asked was not twenty or thirty thousand, which would have been as readily granted as the smaller sum. The fact that the complaint met with the general approval of the House is sufficient to show that the time has gone by when ministers need be afraid to ask for the expenditure of public money for art purposes and it most be with satisfaction that every man of education and good sense will regard this fact.

But it most not be supposed in speaking of art, that painting and sculpture only are referred to. Architects need not take a second place to their brothers of the brush and chisel in the beneficent effects on the public mind which are produced by their own branch of art. On the contrary its place in the trio of the fine arts has always been, and will ever be the first. And while, as an art, it exercises its refining and ennobling influences on the mind, it is practically interwoven with every phase of human existence.

On this account and because it would be impossible to conduct the business of the country without necessary and adequate building accommodation, architecture has received a fair amount of encouragement at the hands of the government. No fault can be found with the different governments so far as providing buildings when and where they have been found necessary. But the system which was adopted at the birth of the Dominion and which was both necessary and suitable for that time has nothing to recommend its continuance at the present. When the Dominion came into existence there were very few architects in the country and comparatively no very great demand for them. Since then, however, the country has made rapid strides and has developed in every direction to an abnormal extent. With this growth has come the demand for a better class of building, and architects have come into the country and grown up in it to supply the demand so that the larger cities particularly are well provided with buildings of a high order, and give unmistakable evidence that we have in our Dominion as capable a band of architects as are to be found in any other country at the present day.

The government has no need, therefore, to restrict itself for its architecture to the abilities and services of one man, as was necessary and suitable thirty years ago. The system which we

followed at Confederation was the best system for a young country ; but we shall be doing a wise thing when we follow the example of Britain and other countries, and give opportunities to inure than one architect to display their architectural abilities.

In quite recent times there have been a great many large public buildings erected in England, such as the <building>Foreign Offices</building<building>>, the Law Courts</building>, <building>the Natural History Museum</building>, the <building>Admiralty Offices</building>, etc., etc. In every ease the designs for these buildings were chosen either by public or limited competitions. The object the British Government had in view in these competitions was, not only to obtain the best designs, but to give to architects generally an incentive to pot forth their best efforts and to bring into prominence the talents of some who would otherwise have remained unknown.

It is impossible to overestimate the benefits to the profession and to architecture in England, which have resulted from these competitions. The influence of the designs that were submitted and that remained for many weeks on public exhibition has completely revolutionized architecture in England. At the beginning of the present century and until about fifty years ago architecture in England was at a very low ebb. Now there is no country in which buildings are erected on a grander scale, of more beautiful design, or where so much attention is given to architectural principles and detail.

To say that this has been brought about by the system of having competitive designs for government and other buildings would be to claim a great deal too much. But no one can deny that this has been one (if the most potent factors in producing the change. If such a system were to be adopted in Canada there is no doubt that the effect upon the architecture of the country would be beneficial, hut it would give national encouragement to architecture without incurring any further charge upon the Dominion exchequer than is incurred now. The cost of maintaining the architects department in connection with the government amounts to more that five per cent. of the annual value of the buildings erected. The change would therefore involve no financial loss, but rather a gain to the country. It is not, however, for this reason that the question is here raised. Neither is it from any desire to find fault with the present government architect or to speak despairingly of his ability. If the present system is to remain unchanged it would be no easy matter to find, in the whole Dominion, a man better qualified for his position. But the circumstances which rendered such an office necessary no longer exist.

The buildings erected by the Dominion Government tire chiefly post offices, custom houses, government offices and drill halls, and though there is not much variety in the classes of buildings, the location and local requirements introduce elements sufficient to require considerable variety of treatment. But the most versatile architect becomes in the course of time liable to repeat himself; he may even become stereotyped in his versatility. We cannot therefore, look for much progress in the architecture of our national buildings, when we continue through a long series of years to engage the services of only one man. But we tire certainly running the risk of remaining at a standstill in this respect and to do so is to retrograde.

limit if it be a wise thing for the government in secure by competition the best designs from the best architects in the country for our public buildings, it would be equally unwise to abolish absolutely the office of government architect, and here again we might imitate the practice of the motherland. In all public buildings there are changes made as time goes on. And so, when any building has been completed according to the architects design, the plans are deposited with the government architect, who, with a sufficient staff of capable assistants, will look after any future changes which may be found necessary.

As already stated, the course is open for any Minister of the Crown to distinguish himself by lifting our national art up to a higher level than it occupies now. And the foregoing is humbly submitted as an outline of a system which could easily be adopted in regard to our public buildings, and one which would give great satisfaction to the profession generally, as well as being of inestimable and lasting benefit to the country at large.





<article title=" NEW YORK CITY HALL COMPETITION " author="">NEW YORK CITY HALL COMPETITION.

ON the 20th of I)December, the Advisory board of Architects in the above competition presented their report, in which they announced the selection from 134 designs submitted of numbers 13, 23, 28, 35 107 and t t3 as the six which most nearly meet the requirements. The final selection will be made from these six selected designs at the close of the present month, and the names of the successful competitors announced.





The oldest school building in Montreal, situated at the corner of Cute and Lagauchetiere streets, has been sold for the sum of $20,000, for manufacturing purposes.

<assoc>THE Arts and Crafts Association of Hamilton</assoc>, has been organized at Hamilton, Out., local artists anti architects being among the chief promoters. The object sought to be attained is to foster local talent and assist in bringing the work of artists before the public. The organization meeting in the <building>Hamilton Art School</building> was well attended. Mr. <person>E. W. Morrison </person>was appointed secretary of the Association, the election of officers being deferred to a subsequent meeting.

