<doctype type="ad;text">RoomMouldings	DIAMOND TILES	___	____	Q	New goods just opened.	.ii. 	_________ 	j		_	___		I	signs specially coloured to	_____	Rich and effective de-	____	 CORRUGATED iRON •—	match our Wall Papers			    V CRIMPED AND PRESSED	Rails, Ceiling and			  for all classes of buildings.	and Ingrains; also Chair		____	STAND SEAM ROOFINC	Panel Beads, Coves, 	etc., in Gold and shaded	_____ .	____	Hayes' Pateilt ____effects, Natural Oaks,		Steel Lath 	etc.	. . We colour mouldings	WRITE FOR PRICES.	U)to match any paper."Empire" Patent ShinglesCANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDERUSEFUL HINTS.The following collection of recipes will be found useful for cleaning various kinds of materials:— Brass or Copper, to Clean Mix together 1 oz. oxalic acid, 6 oz. rottenstone and 1/3 oz. gum arabic pounded finely. Add 1 oz. sweet oil and sufficient water to form a paste. Apply and rub dry with flannel or washleather. Brass, to Clean.—(1.) Wash with rock alum boiled in strong lye, in the proportion of 1 oz. to a pint; polished with dry tripoli. (2 ) Coat the part to be cleaned with a piece of rag moistened with nitric acid; as soon as it turns a light yellow, rub dry.Bronze, to Clean. Fly specks, etc., may be removed by means of amixture of lavender oil, one drachm ; alcohol, one ounce; water, one andone-half ounce. Use soft sponge, rubbing as little as possible.Bronze Statuary, to Clean—Use weak soapsuds or aqua ammonia.Brushes, Hair, to Clean—Dissolve a piece of soda the size of a walnut in a quart of water. After combing out the hair from the brushes, dip them, bristles downward, in and out of this solution, keeping the backs and handles as free from the water as possible. Repeat this until the brushes look clean. Then rinse in cold water, shake well and wipe the backs and handles with a towel, but not the bristles, as it makes them soft as does also the use of soft soap. Set the brushes in the sun or near a gentle fire.Brushes, Paint, to Clean.— (a.) Clean with turpentine, pressing out all particles of color upon a marble slab, and then suspend in jars of water not allowing them to touch the bottom. Change the water twice a week. (2.) To clean old paint brushes which have become hard with paint, soak the brushes twenty-four hours in raw linseed oil ; then rinse in hot turpentine, repeating thc process until clean.Emery, to clean After Using—Boil with caustic potash, stirring constantly, then wash with dilute acid, and dry.Files. to Cleanse. Rub with a scratch brush moistened with a fewdrops of benzole.Floors, to Extract Paraffin Oil from. Apply a strong, hot solution ofoxalic acid, and afterwards use the scrubbing brush.Glass, to Clean.—For glass that has been run onto with colors while doing the frames; first take a sharp edged putty knife. but one which has no nicks on the edge cut the paint off as low as you can without scratching the glass. Rub with a mixture of turps, oil and pumice stone. Clean oft with 'a rag and soap. Wash and polish with a cotton rag.Granite, Removal of Stains iron. —(1.) A paste of a oz. oxgall, :gill of strong solution of caustic soda, tablespoonfuls of turpentine, withMr. H. E. Burnett, manager of the building firm of Wm. J Davis & Co, Chicago, has recently visited Canada with the object, it is said, of establishing a branch of the firm's business in this country.The Carpenters' and Joiners' unions of Montreal is said to have recently madearrangements with most of the actors	 of that city whereby in future 9 hoursshall constitute a day's work. The unions are also said to have determined a standard day's pay for all carpenters, the enforcement of which will be attempted after the first of May next. pipe clay	 (2.) / Li Use strong lye and make a hot solution of lbs. of common washing soda dissolved in 1 gal. of water. Lay it on the granite with a paint brush.Grease Spots, to Kill before Painting, Give the surface a wash with saltpeter in solution or very thin tune whitewash. Soapsuds if used, must be well rinsed off or the paint will not dry over.Grease, to Remove from Stone Steps. Pour strong soda or boiling hot water over the spot, lay on it a little fullers earth made in a thin paste with boiling water; let it remain over night and if the grease be not removed repeat the process Grease may sometimes be removed by rubbing with a hard stone, using and  very hot water with soap and soda.Hair Pencils, to Clean. Rinse with turpentine ; work the brush in fine ashes, and shake the hair out well.Hands, to Clean.— To remove paint use linseed oil and if necessary turpentine also. Use a nail brush instead of a knife for cleaning around the nails, Do not brush too often. After the hands are well brushed, washed and rinsed, dry on a soft towel and apply the following, pulverized borax three drachms, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls hot water, add to this glycerin, ounce, bay rum one ounce, a few drops perfume. A few drops after cleansing the hands and before going to bed will keep then, soft and white, and remove the dry and uncomfortable feeling of which so many painters and paper hangers complain. (2.)Take a wine glass full of eau de cologne and another of lemon juice; then scrape two cakes brown Windsor soap to a powder and mix well in a mould.Iron and Steel to Clean and Polish. Saturate a spongy piece of fig tree wood with a mixture of sweet oil, and finely powdered entery and with this well rub all the rusty pairs. This both cleans and polishes. rendering the use of whiting unnecessary.Iron and Steel, Fine, to clean from Rust—Cleanse first with a paste made of ten parts tin putty, eight of prepared buck's horn, and twenty-five of spirit of wine. Then rub with soft blotting paper.Mahogany, to Remove Spots from.—Apply a little aqua fortis and Water or Oxalic acid and water, rubbing the part with a cork till the colour is restored, being careful afterward to wash the wood with water, and to dry and polish as usual.Marble, to Clean—Mix soda, pumice stone and finely powdered chalk in proportion of two parts of the former to one of the latter; pass through a sieve and mix with water to form a paste of same consistency. Rub well into the marble and rinse with water.Marble Bust, to Clean, (1.) Remove dust and wash with very Weak solution of hydrochloric acid. Soap injures the color of the marble. , (2.) Brush the marble with a clean paint brush dipped in a solution containing	6 KING STREET WEST.	706 Craig Street, MONTREAL.	82 Yonge Street, TORONTO.	