<doctype type="text">	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CANADIAN CITY ENGINEERS " author="">CANADIAN CITY ENGINEERS.

vii.

<person>ROBERT SURTEES</person>, City Engineer of Ottawa, Ont. was born at Ravensworth, Yorkshire, England, March 3rd, 1835. He served his apprenticeship with the late <person>George Mason</person>, a well known civil engineer in Darlington. At the age of 21 he came to Canada, and first settled in the city of Hamilton, where he acted as Assistant City Engineer for four years, when he removed to New Edinburgh, a village now embraced within the city of Ottawa, where he established himself as an Engineer and Architect.

During his fifteen years residence there he designed and had charge of many important public works, amongst them the Protestant Hospital and the <building>Carleton County Court House</building> in the city of Ottawa. He was engineer of the town of Peterboro', Out., and city of Hull, P. Q., waterworks, and acted as consulting engineer for a number of municipal corporation drainage and water works schemes.

In 1875 he accepted the position of engineer for the city of Ottawa, and under his direction and supervision some important works were carried out, such as the construction of the main sewer, and the enlargement of the water works system, the former costing half a million dollars and three years labor to complete, and the latter work entailing the expenditure of a similar amount. These works may be classed as amongst the finest in the Dominion.

Mr. Surtees is a member of the <assoc>Canadian and American Society of Civil Engineers</assoc>, as well of the American '<assoc>Water Works Association</assoc>.

Politically he has always been a Conservative. In religion he is a member of the Church of England and is thoroughly evangelical in his views. He married in Hamilton and has a grown up family of two daughters and four Sons.





<article title=" A STUDY IN LIME." author="">A STUDY IN LIME.

Lime constitutes so large a portion of the building material used in this country, says <person>V.

B.	Grinnell</person>, in the Painters' Magazine, that it scents to me that every builder and decorator should be familiar with its nature, composition, impurities and reaction upon the elements of organized substances coming in contact with it. " Lime is ranked with the alkaline earths, and is never found pure in its native state, but combined with carbonic acid in marble, calcerous spar, limestone and shells, and with sulphuric acid in gypsum, and phosphoric acid in the bones of animals.' When lime is made by burning the native carbonate or limestone in kilns it is usually impure, combining alumina, silica, sesqui- Robert Surtees dioxide of iron, magnesia, oxide of manganese, clay, &c. The carbonic acid is expelled by the heat in the kilo, but when cool and exposed to the air it absorbs moisture and carbonic acid, and crumbles into powder, and becomes air-slacked lime. 'When water is added to the fresh lime heat is evolved, the stone cracks and powders, forming hydrate of lime. Lime is so sparingly soluble in water that it takes 700 times its weight in water to completely dissolve it. It _______ acts upon vegetable colors like an alkali. Lime has many incompatibles, among which we may name "All acids, all metallic acidulous and ammoniacal salts, borates, alkaline carbonates, and astringent vegetable infusions." In other words, they cannot exist together in solution without natural decomposition, and combining their acids, forming calcium salts.

The painter and decorator finds a large portion of his work upon plastered walls, and to do it intelligently he must understand the composition of the wall and the nature of  the materials used in its construction, and the effect which they may have upon the various materials which he may be called upon to use in the course of his work. If he is not posted in this respect, he goes at his task in the dark, and must not be surprised if he meets with occasional disappointment and failure. We know that the lime in the well may contain impurities, and that the sand mixed with it may contain clay, and that clay may contain sulphur. The sand may be mixed with iron pyrites, sulphate of lime, sulphate of barytes, magnesia, &c, In the great crushing process which ground the mighty rocks to sand, all the minerals which they contained went in. Who can tell what they were or what has been added since the sand has been drifting from place to place? 'Who knows what salts will be formed

when the impurities are set tree and brought together by the water used in mixing the lime and sand into mortar? The heat in the lime in drying may prevent much that would otherwise happen but in after years, when the plaster has been long or frequently wet, the sulphur and magnesia coming in contact may produce sulphate of magnesia (espom salt). This salt contains more than 51 per cent. of the water of crystallization, and often has very much to do keeping walls damp and in forming crystalline incrustations upon the surface, especially upon brick walls. This salt is completely decomposed by fresh lime, but the lime in plaster, which has been long water-soaked, seems to have become sufficiently inert to admit of the formation of the salt in question. This salt is also decomposed by "potassa and soda, and their carbonates by baryta and stronia, and their soluble salts ;" but the trouble is to apply any of these decomposing agents to the source of supply in the interior of the brick or mortar of a brick or plastered wall. 'We may decompose the crystal upon the surface, but the dampness inside will continue to throw out more of the salt. 'We sometimes sufficiently decompose it near the surface, to make it possible to check its further advance. First soak the wall with the decomposing agent, and after it is dry apply a coat of waterproof paint or gum. For the outside the dry hot weather of summer is the best, because the hot weather will dry the surface after the decomposing agent has been applied.

An example of the rapid formation of the crystals of this salt

came under my observation two years ago in a basement. A

		bank of clay had been cut

		down and a plastered wall

	- -	made near to it. Subsequently

		the basement was flooded with

		water, which stood for several

		days, thoroughly soaking the

		wall. Within a few weeks I

		discovered crystals upon the

		surface of the wall they con-

		tinued to increase until several

		square yards of the wall were

		covered, in places half an inch

		thickness. The product was

		unmistakably epsom salts. I

		found, upon examination, that

		the wall was still wet, and that

		the space between the wall and

		the bank had been filled with

		h, which had been washed

		the top of tlte batik, which

		mind still damp. As an ex-

		periment, a small portion of the

		all was dried by artificial heat,

		and then kept wet for a day

		by frequent applications of a

		at ong solution of carbonate of

		soda. The plaster was then

		dried and given two coats of

		orange shellac. At the end of

		eighteen months no more crys-

		tal had forrmed upon the place

		each had been treated. The

		crystals of this salt upon brick

		walls are frequently called

		saltpetre; but I am at a loss to

		know why, because the taste

		and form of crystals in the two

	ENGINEER OTTAWA	salts are so much unlike.

		Saltpeter is found in old plas-

	ter rubbish in combination	with lime and common salt; but

in this combination it seems to be inert. Saltpetre has a sharp, cooling, and slightly bitterish taste, and its crystals are long, striated semi transparent six sided prisms. Epsom salt crystalizes in four-sided prisms, is colorless and transparent, of bitter, nauceous, saline taste.





The <assoc>Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science</assoc>,

Toronto,  has decided to  establish a monthly paper.

The new high school building recently erected at Niagara Falls, Ont., was formally opened on the 8th inst. by the Minister of Education. The building is erected in Wesley Park, and is surrounded by seven acres of ground. The building and site cost about $30,000.

A representative of the <firm>National Wall Paper Company of America </firm>was in Ottawa recently for the purpose of inducing the Customs Department, in making valuation of imported wall papers, to allow for a discount of 20 per cent, which the company offers to all dealers who use its goods exclusively.

The new hotel Frontenac, erected by the Canadian Pacific Railway at Quebec, was opened to the public on the 18th of December. The building contains 170 bed rooms, some of which are 310 feet above the level of the St. Lawrence, The building occupies a magnificent site, affording views up and down the river, of the Isle of Orleans, and of the Laurentian range of mountains. It is designed in the old chateau style, the decorations and furniture being of 16th century character. Mr. Bruce Price, of New York, was the architect.