<doctype type="text">	THE	ARCHITECT AND

<article title=" ELECTRIC PERCUSSION AND ROTARY DRILLS " author="">

ELECTRIC PERCUSSION AND ROTARY DRILLS.

THE accompanying illustration shows in operation at the Windsor Gypsum Quarries, Windsor, Nova Scotia, portable electric percussion and rotary drills which have lately been introduced. and are being manufactured by the Canadian General Electric Co.

The percussion drill in general external appearance conforms very closely to the regular type of steam and air drill ; in fact the tripod and shelf are of the standard steam drill form. Electrically, it is arranged in the form of a solid piston reciprocating in a magnetic field and controlled thereby. The piston is provided with a standard air drill rotating rifle-bar and the usual form of springs to protect the front head of the drill from blows. The drill has a piston diameter of 334", a length of stroke from 6 1/2 to 8 1/2, length of feed 24", number of blows per minute, 360 to 380.

The first of these drills was installed on the Canadian "800" Canal last winter, when the contractors, Messrs. Hugh Ryan & Co., were greatly pleased with its performance. On these works the performance was equal to that of 3' steam drill, and the facility with

which the drill could be moved, owing to

the complete flexi-	

bility of the connec-  

tions, was especially	 remarked. As far

as economy goes,	

it far surpassed - 

any other drills on 

the works. The

cost of operating,

including power for K 

operating the gener- 

ator and labor of

the attendant at the

power house, was

somewhat under the

average operating

expenses of the 

steam drills. Bear-

ing in mind that the

attendance at the

power house is the 

same whether one 

drill or fifty are in

operation, and that 

the increase of 

power is by no

means in proportion



the number of	

to                                                    drills, it will be

readily seen that a	ELECTRIC PERCUSSION IN OPERATION AT THE WINDSOR GYP <article title=" ELECTRIC PERCUSSION IN OPERATION AT THE WINDSOR GYP " author="">

very great saving

will be effected over steam drills where the number in operation is the same.

In the Windsor Gypsum Quarries, Windsor, N. S., where one of these drills is in operation, every satisfaction is being given by it. The best day's work of one drill on record is ten 10 ft holes in 9 hours and 20 minutes. This was in glow lime stone.

The rotary drill is designed especially for use in coal mining but has also been used with great success in the Gypsum Quarries of the Windsor Gypsum Co., where the clayey nature of the material tends to clog the drill and imposes the severest test on the capability of the machine. The drill ill is similar to the well-known Howell's drill with an electric motor geared to it in such a way as to form a light and efficient tool. The control of the motor is effected by a small plug switch. No rheostat being used, power may be taken from the same wire supplying current for lighting, pumping or haulage.

Feed screws of different pitch are furnished for varying the speed of boring and a friction clutch protects the motor should any particularly hard obstacles be stuck suddenly.

The columns are made in different lengths and each is adjustable for about two feet variation. The construction of the drill and its method of mounting enable the operator to drill close to the roof, floors or walls as well as in any direction.

The drill weighs with post complete only about 160 lbs., the drill itself weighing 100 lbs. In bituminous coal this drill shows a speed of drilling of 7 to 10 feet per minute.



COLLAPSE OF BUILDINGS. <article title=" COLLAPSE OF BUILDINGS " author="">

THE records of failures in the Middle Ages rather indulge in religious than in practical explanations of the causes, and so, says the Builders' Reporter, we do not gain much practical knowledge from these examples, such as the fall of the towers of Winchester Cathedral in the twelfth century ; of Glouchester Cathedral, in 1160; of Worcester Cathedral, in 1175 ; of Evesham, in 1215 of Dunstable Priory, in 1221 the smaller towers of Worcester Cathedral, in 1222 ; the tower of Lincoln, in 1244 of Ely Cathedral, in 1322 ; of Norwich Cathedral, in 1361; and the west front of Hereford Cathedral, in 1786; the central tower of Hereford would have fallen had not its impending ruin been observed and remedied. The old tower of Thurston Church, Suffolk, fell in 1860. Then we have the Chichester tower in 1861. The above small list of towers awakens the

thought that special care is needed for	all structures that are

	  carried upon piers

___________________________________	  instead of upon

	  continuous walls.

             —~	  But the description

	  that has been given

      -	  of the cause of fail-

	  ure in the Chiches-

	  ter tower would

	  have been very ap-

	  plicable to many of

	  the other cases.

	  The lesson derived

	  from the Chiches-

	  ter fall seems to be

	  that rubble mason-

	  ry should never be

	  used in piers carry-

	  ing towers or other

	  heavy work; it is a

	  masonry suitable



weight are main objects, but it is inadmissible where unyielding vigour of

 pier is to be attained; it also suggests

that in any such case a soft kind of stone is scarcely safe even if it be of a sound nature; and

AND ROTARY DRILLS,	the stone forming UM CO. S QUARRIES, WINDSOR, N. S.



the facing at Chichester, though in some respects a good stone, was not suitable



where a crushing force was the chief force in action. It was from near Binstead, in the Isle of Wight, and it is the only tertiary building stone in England but if we want a thoroughly good freestone we must get it out of the secondary beds. The stone in the piers of the French Pantheon was of a rather weak quality, but that with which the inner and intermediate domes were formed was tertiary, from the quarries of Conflans, about eighteen miles from Paris, and for which latter purpose it is particularly suitable.



PERSONAL.

Mr. E. L. Horwood, architect, Ottawa, through our advertisement columns, invites manufacturers to send him copies of their catalogues.

Mr. E. B. Merrill, who was for many years instructor in electricity at the Toronto Technical School, has been elected principal of that flourishing institution.

Mr. William Robinson, who for 21 years occupied the position of City Engineer of London, Ont., died in that city on the 10th of October. Mr. Robinson at one time practiced as an architect and land surveyor in Toronto,



In considering simply the proper and best use of color for house interiors it is not necessary to include the question of ornament or elaboration either of walls or ceiling. These may follow, but tint must go before, and if thoroughly studied and well chosen, can very well dispense with ornament.

