<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



MR. Richard A. Waite, of Buffalo, is reported to have said to a Montreal reporter that he had been requested to examine the Montreal Street Railway Company's new building and give expert testimony concerning the cause of its failure, but had declined on account of professional reasons. Mr. Waite and the profession are both to be congratulated on this refusal to reap a personal advantage by transgressing the ethics of the profession. What a pity that Mr. Waite was not as well grounded in professional ethics prior to the erection of the Ontario Legislative Buildings 



IN a reference last month to the importance to the contractor of a knowledge of concrete construction, the promise was given that some formulas for work of this character would be published in the present number. This promise is to a large extent fulfilled in the excellent paper on "Concrete Construction—its Practical Application," by Ernest L. Ransome, printed elsewhere in this issue. In this paper the treatment given the subject is more comprehensive and thorough than in any single treatise which has yet come under our attention. Notwithstanding there are some phases of the subject which are not touched upon, and which will be considered on a future occasion.



THE plastic character of terra cotta naturally makes it a favorite building material. A recent writer has pointed out that out of this fact threatens to spring its indiscriminate use. Before the stamp of the artist can be exhibited on stone or marble, skill and labor, in no small degree, is required, but "terra cotta leaps forward to the modeler and, meeting him almost half way, realizes at once the grandest and broadest conception with an ease equalled in no other material." The danger will be to overload with ornament, and the prediction is that if this tendency is permitted to grow that the good service that terra cotta may do in building construction will be seriously marred and a distaste may be created against it that will destroy its usefulness.





ARCHITECTS, and especially members of the Architectural Associations, who may be desirous of promoting a high standard of professional ethics and of seeing the profession held in public esteem, should endeavor to make it perfectly clear that unprofessional conduct, wherever found, will be discountenanced. The Associations should not hesitate, if necessary, to discipline their members. If commissions are accepted from supply men or contractors, if work is undertaken at cut rates, or if unfair means be used to secure it in competition or otherwise—-if in short disreputable practices of any sort are resorted to, it should be made plain that the person practising them has no standing among his brother architects. If wrong methods are allowed to pass unnoticed by reputable members of the profession, the public cannot be expected to know who are the reliable architects or that there is any difference as between one architect and another until they learn the fact by some disagreeable and perhaps expensive personal experience. The same is true of contractors. They should make a clear distinction among themselves, as regards those who are entitled to be known and dealt with as competent and reliable contractors. Instance, the question of responsibility. The contractor who pays one hundred cents on the dollar and is responsible in case of liability through accident to an employee, often has to compete in tendering with men who have no financial responsibility whatever. If the Employer's Liabilities Act is a just measure, why should not contractors be licensed ? Responsible contractors should likewise use every legitimate means to make supply firms feel the necessity of strict terms and restriction of credit within safer lines. In tendering it should be made a condition that no tender should be considered binding until the contractor making it has had opportunity of knowing whose are to be the other accepted tenders, as he knows to begin with who is to be the architect. By this means it could be made much more difficult for men who inflict a loss on almost everybody with whom they come into business relations to secure contracts.





IN another part of the present number is printed the plan of a proposed organization to be known as the "Chicago Municipal Improvement League." The purpose of this organization is to secure for the city of Chicago "such an arrangement, design and

adornment of its public buildings and grounds, streets and boulevards and other public works as shall most contribute to the convenience and enjoyment of the public, shall stimulate an appreciation of art, and give to the city a fit expression of its greatness." These objects are identical with those mentioned by Mr. A. T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A., of Montreal, n the paper which he recently presented to the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, wherein he advocated the appointment of a committee of artists, architects, etc., to supervise the erection of public monuments, the laying out of public squares, etc. Referring to the Chicago League, to which we directed his attention, Mr. Taylor, writes as follows: "My idea was a little more modest than the Chicago organization, at least to begin with, but which would ultimately expand to embrace the wider objects. If we could get this Advisory Art Committee appointed to which all city art matters would be referred by the city authorities in all the large towns and cities of the Dominion, it would be a great step in advance. I am in hopes of getting our Association here to petition the Council in favor of such a scheme for our city.  The Dominion is, I think, quite ripe now for an increased attention to the art side of its national life and progress, and looked at even from its lowest point of view—that of the dollars and cents aspect—it would pay, for whatever adds to the beauty and attractiveness of our cities and towns would tend to draw both people and money ; but I prefer to put it on the higher ground of culture, art training and actual enjoyment of the people themselves." We are pleased to observe that since the above was written the Province of Quebec Association of Architects has adopted a resolution embodying Mr. Taylor's views. The Ontario Association of Architects might profitably we think give some consideration to this subject at its approaching annual convention, and it is to be hoped that the initiative taken by Montreal will be followed by Toronto and other principal cities and towns throughout the Dominion.

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



A GENERAL meeting of the Ontario Association of Architects was held in the Lecture Room of the Canadian Institute on Friday evening, Nov. 16th.



The programme consisted of a Lecture on Statics by Mr. C. H. C. Wright, B. A. Sc., of the School of Practical Science.

With the aid of some simple apparatus and a series of prepared diagrams a demonstration was given of all the fundamental principles involved in "Graphic Statics" and their direct application to framed structures such as architects constantly meet with in practice.

It was also shown, that by the use of drawing instruments alone, and an average knowledge of mathematics, that the stresses in even complex structures due to exterior loading, could be readily determined when once the leading principles were fully understood.

In the discussion that followed, some of the architects present illustrated how nearly theory and practice agree in this respect, by examples from their own work.



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ARCH ITECTS.

UNDER the title "A Gift to Quebec Architects," the Quebec Telegraph of recent date contained the following:

"Public attention is directed to the magnificent tableau or exhibition at Lavigne's music store, in Fabrique street. It is by Notman, of Montreal, and some three to four feet in length. It contains the portraits of some forty-seven of the architectural fraternity of the sister city and below each portrait is the name of the architect. The Quebec section of the Association of Architects of the Province of Quebec had last year or at a previous general meeting of the Association presented their confreres of Montreal with a similar tableau, photographed by Beaudry, of Quebec, but naturally of less dimensions, as it only contained the portraits of some twenty Quebec architects. The tableau at Lavigne's is as the French have it "le re/our du gateau" and was presented by the Montreal section to the architects of Quebec, at the opening of the last general meeting of the Association at Montreal on the 5th of October last, when Mr. Baillairge, of this city, was elected president of the Association for the ensuing year of 1894-95."





The works of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., at Shallow lake, Ont., are again in operation, and are turning out 125 barrels of cement per day.

