

<doctype type="text">

<article title=" CATHEDRAL OF THE HOLY TRINITY, QUEBEC.*

" author="Staveley, H.">CATHEDRAL OF THE HOLY TRINITY, QUEBEC.*

BY H. STAVELEY.



I

N the Quebec Gazette of 8th Sept., 1796. appears an account of a great fire, which ten days before had devastated a large part of the upper town, and in the course of which the church and convent of the Order of Recollects were destroyed. Thc site upon which these buildings stood is that which is hounded towards the north by St. Anne street, towards the south by St. Lewis street, towards the west by Garden street and on the east by he Parade Grounds, or Place D'Armes.

After the fire the government took possession of the property, and had the ruins of the former buildings leveled to the ground. three years subsequently the Right Rev. Jacob Mountain, D. D., first Bishop of Quebec, induced King George III at his own cost to build the Cathedral Church of the Holy Trinity," upon he site above designated. On the 11th November, 1799, a commission was appointed by Letters Patent, consisting of the Lord Bishop of Quebec, the Chief Justice of Lower Canada, the Rector of Quebec, and the Attorney General, for the purpose of building this church.

Plans and specifications were obtained, and Capt. Robe, of he Royal Artillery, was appointed superintendent of the work. For these services we learn that he received /300 in all probability sterling, or say $1,438. As the expenditure totaled about $80,000, we must conclude that the architect was moved by higher motives than those of the "Tariff" to perform the duties, which, after a lapse of nearly 100 years, one is willing to admit were well done. Possibly, however, the Captain's income was not altogether dependent upon the exercise of his architectural talent. Capt. Robe's own record tells us that he was materially assisted by Capt. Hill, of the Royal Artillery, to whom he gives credit for the "general plan". "The detailed plans of the several parts," however, he says, were drawn by himself. Further on we I told, that throughout, " I (Capt. Robe), had continually the aid of Capt. Hall's judgment and good taste." The unselfishness of Capt. Robe's statements makes one feel an admiration for him which is increased as we further hear from him in what manner he obtained the thoughts and inspiration which enabled him to produce the church, whose quiet dignity, pleasing proportions, and chaste architectural detail have combined to endear it to all whose happiness it is to worship within its walls to such, t is, as many have expressed it, "a dear old church."

Following Captain Robe's description we learn that the dimensions of the church were taken from those of the Church of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, London, and which is illustrated in Gibb's Book of Architecture, published in the year 1728. The east and west ends are ornamented with pilasters of the Ionic according to Palladio, and supporting a modillion cornice and pediment, but without a frieze. This idea was taken from the Pantheon at Rome, so executed, and was done to give more boldness to the pilasters for the intended height of the building. The pilasters project less than Palladio's rule directs, owing to the Point aux Trembles stone which, in the then state of the quarries, could not be got in masses large enough, without an "enormous expense.' The pediments are sw-mounted with oblate vases, which at the angles of the building serve as flues for the stoves within the church. As the vases are not now on either pediments or at the angles of the building, it must be supposed that for some good reason they have been removed as regards those which served as flues, they have been replaced with very everyday square chimney tops.

The tower, 24 feet square, contains 8 bells, which were placed therein in 1830 at a cost of $2,800—-defrayed by subscription on.

The whole designs within the church are of the ancient Ionic order, but from the proportions of different approved masters, according to their situation. The Venetian window at the east end is the Ionic of Vitruvius, according to Vignola. The pulpit (long since replaced by the one now in use) is the Ionic of Albert, and is described as follows "The ancient oaken pulpit placed in the centre, was in form a twelve-sided polygon, and was reached on either side by staircases entered from the front, and meeting in a platform in rear. Directly in front of and attached to the pulpit, was the reading desk with a door on each side, and in front of this the clerk's desk"—verily a three-decker of "ye olden tymes." As evidencing how time changes all things earthly, it may be noted that the pulpit now in use will most likely soon give place to a more elegant one, in memory of the late revered Bishop Williams, or if the memorial should take another form, than that of a new pulpit, the position of the latter must perforce be changed in view of the recent decision to place choir seats in the chance], in consequence of which the pulpit will now be placed towards the north side of the nave.

Capt. Robe also informs us that the organ long since departed) is a design of his own, and that the fret work of the great arch, over the nave, 41 feet from the floor, is his own, being an imitation of ancient stucco work, but deeming plaster to be an unsuitable material for this climate, had adopted wood— taking his idea from the common mode of ceiling rooms in



 The writer of this article has drawn his information from a Monograph,, by

<person>J.	C. Wurtele</person>, Esq., entitled "The English Cathedra1 of Quebec' and read before

<assoc>the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec</assoc>, 10th March, 1891.

Quebec, with board and batten, but aiming at a better effect, had crossed the battens diagonally.



The columns and entablature between nave and aisles, and supporting the arched roof, are of Ionic from Palladio, as correctly followed as wood work would admit.

The floors and pews, the bishop's throne, the gallery fronts, the chancel rails. etc., are all of oak. The columns are of pitch pine encased with " other wood," many times painted. The arched ceiling is entirely of pine, also painted. The chancel is semi-circular inside, on a radius of 18 feet. On the wall within the chancel to the south side of the altar are the "Ten Commandments," in two large tablets, having broad gilt cable borders. On the north side are two similar tablets, containing the Apostles' Creed and the Lord's Prayer.

The Bishop's throne is situated on the south side of the chancel, with the font immediately opposite thereto. Stalls are provided for the Dean, Archdeacon and Canons of the Cathedral to the number of eight seats, and as before intimated, in a few days choir seats for 24 persons will be placed in front of the clergy stalls, half on the north side arid half on the south side of the chancel.

In the centre aisle there are about fifteen massive oaken benches used by the children of the Orphan Homes ; they are movable, and n case of funerals and processions, are taken away, and the central aisle or passage is left clear for its full width of ten feet.

The records shew that the masons began laying the foundations on the 11th August, 1800. Service was performed in the church on the 4th August, 1804. Considering the size of the building—1 35 feet long, 73 feet wide and 40 feet high to eaves of roof— and its generally plain character, it may be gathered that no extraordinary speed was attained in its erection, but as substantiality and a due and proper regard for procuring dry, well seasoned wood, were in those days esteemed of more value than now, we may suppose that the length of time occupied in building the church was more a matter of choice than of necessity.

Beneath the chancel floor repose the mortal remains of Charles, Duke of Richmond, Lenox and Autuguy, who died at Richmond, in Upper Canada, on the 29th of August, 1819, marked by a brass plate sunk in the floor, and the Right Reverend <person>Jacob Mountain, D.D., </person>first Bishop of Quebec, who died in the year 1825.

Throughout this venerable edifice are many handsome mitral tablets in memory of distinguished persons, including those above mentioned also Bishop Stuart, Lieut.-General Hunter, Lieut.-Governor of Upper Canada, 1805 ; Hon. <person>John Stewart</person>, Hon. <person>Carleton Thomas Moncton</person>, son of <person>Viscount Galway </person>Rev. <person>G. V. Housman</person>, for twenty -nine years rector of Quebec, and about twenty others, all most interesting to examine, bringing to mind as they do, men and events of the century now drawing to its close, and of men who figured prominently in the ancient city in days of yore.

Stained glass windows of more or less merit also keep fresh in memory many citizens whose good deeds are worthy of commemoration. Foremost among these is the beautiful east end window, the central light containing the "Ascension,' with the "Baptism" and "Transfiguration" in the side lights, symbolic representation of the four Evangelists occupying the space above and beneath the latter. This is to the memory of the second Bishop Mountain, third Bishop of Quebec. A very handsome window has also been erected to the memory of Judge Stuart and Judge Black (half brothers)— and others in remembrance of <person>Archibald Campbell</person>, <person>Agnes Campbell</person>, <person>George. B. Symes</person>, and <person>Mrs. Young</person>.

Strangers visiting the church are often puzzled as to the meaning of two old flags which hang in the chancel, all tattered and torn. They were formerly the regimental colors of 1-IM. 69th regiment of foot, and were deposited for safe keeping in the cathedral 22nd June, 1870, when new colors were presented to the regiment by H.R.H. Prince Arthur, then Lieutenant in the P.C.O. Rifle Brigade.

The splendid communion service of this church, consisting of twelve massive pieces of solid silver, was the special gift of <person>King George III</person>. They are exquisitely engraved and embossed with the Royal Arms and the Arms of the Diocese. The alms dish is a particularly beautiful work of art, the bottom being a representation in relief of the Lord's Supper.

Such is a brief and imperfect sketch of a venerable building dear to the hearts of many, not only of those still residing in the city of Quebec, but to hundreds whose lot is now cast in far distant parts. There are those whose early recollections of the old church come back to them in fir-off India, in New Zealand, in old England, and our own North-West and sure we are that often times their mental vision recalls the graceful proportions, the lofty vault, the antiquate] oaken pews and open benches, dark with age, the curtained pew for vice-regal use, the Episcopal throne, whence has issued in their childhood's days the peaceful words of the benediction from the saintly lips of a Mountain or a Williams—the mural tablets and brasses, the stained glass windows all make up a picture never to be effaced from the memory of those whose privilege it has been to worship within its ancient walls, and to join in the glorious liturgy of the Church of England, which has ever been rendered in this church with due dignity and solemnity.

