<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



use of materials comes from the constant exercise in these directions afforded by the work of this class. All these are, however, only the language with which the artist speaks, the medium through which he has to set forth his thoughts, and the composition class is designed to afford him a familiarity in the application of his language to the expression of his ideas in an artistic way. Three subjects are announced every month and the compositions brought in on the first Monday of the following month. The Way side Inn," "The Path through the Orchard," and In Durance Vile" are the subjects for the present month, and give







































































































LIFE CLASS A NUDE STUDY.



a very fair idea of the character of the subjects selected. Taking one of these as a title, each member is supposed to prepare an illustration in black and white or color, choosing his incident, arranging his leading lines and distributing his masses of light and shade according to his own conception of the subject and his own ideas of what a pictorial composition should be.

The drawing from photographs is of a somewhat similar character. There are many of the League members who "press the button and do the vest" with no mean power, and their work does good service in this department. A suitable subject containing some point of pictorial value is selected and a number of prints of it distributed among the members. Each one, then, taking the prominent point in the print for the basis of a composition, adds figures or other accessories as his imagination suggests or the requirements of the subject demand. The illustration we present by Mr. <person>. D. F. Thomson</person>, is from a 4 X 5 snap shot showing only the cow with a glimpse of the river bordered by trees. When the sketches are brought in they are numbered, and tickets marked with corresponding numbers are drawn by the contributors from the official League hat, and sketch No. becomes the property of the holder of ticket No. 1, and so on until the collection is disposed of.

The N. D. S. L. club is a feature of the League's work which makes very serious demands upon the patience and perseverance of its members A story is told of a musician who affirmed that a day's neglect of practice could be felt by himself, that two days' neglect was noticeable by his friends, while on the third day the public was sensible of thc falling off. The N. D. S. L. club has been formed in the League to encourage among its members a system of every day practice in their work. The tide is formed of the initial letters of the motto "Nulla Dies Sine Linea" (no day without a line), and every member of the

League who is prepared to undertake the making every day of a

sketch, however pretentious or how ever slight, is recognized as a

member of this inner circle.

In addition to the life-class and business evenings an evening is frequently given over to the reading and discussion of papers on art matters prepared or selected by the members

a trifling foolish	banquet followed on special occasions by with the singing of many songs and the telling of many tales. A favorite recreation for a part of such an evening is five-points. For this idle diversion, pieces of paper of uniform size are prepared and marked with five points jotted down

pretty much at random, and a serious struggle ensues as each one wrestles with the problem of constructing a figure with hands fitting on two of the given points, feet on another two and a head on the fifth.

The months of summer are spent in thc woods and the fields. Every Saturday is set apart for sketching excursions by the whole League, and smaller meets are generally held on Wednesdays, while special arrangements are made for more extended trips covering several days or several weeks, and in this way during the summer as well as the winter, the members are held together by a bond of common interest and the loyalty to their institution so eminently characteristic of the League membership is not to be wondered at when one considers how intimately the interests of the individual are bound up in the interests of the body.

At the close of the summer an exhibition of the summer's work is held. It is a private exhibition to be viewed only by the members themselves and their intimate friends. There is no jury; the committee hang successes and failures alike, and many are the lessons such a collection can teach, with here a scrap of scribbler-paper bearing a delightful sketch and there a piece of good paper dirtied and spoiled by a miserable failure.

The public exhibition is always held in December. An interesting feature of the last two of these has been a collection of the original drawings contributed to certain publications prepared by the

League, with a	/ collection also of

negatives, printing blocks and  proofs illustrating the processes of reproduction employed. Made up as it is of persons engaged in practical art work the League had for some time entertained the idea of issuing some such



illustrated publi-		I

cation, and this

idea took practi-

cal shape in 1892. 

Arrangements 

were made for 

publishing a cal- 

endar for the fol- 

lowing year, and

early in Decem-

ber it put in its appearance in the

form of a booklet	-

of 24 pages with

a lithographed	LIFE CLASS—A COSTUME STUDY.

cover in pale blue

and gold bearing the title Ninety-Three." There were 12 pages of drawings made up of four calendars of three months each and illustrations characteristic of the Canadian seasons contributed by different members of the League, while on the opposite pages were appropriate quotations from the verses of Canadian writers. The favor with which this attempt was received encouraged the League to further efforts in the same line, and the kindly accorded co-operation of a number of literary people has made possible the production of Ninety-Four," with a genuinely high degree of literary and artistic excellence. The literary part of the book consists of hitherto unpublished

