<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER

<article title=" PLUMBERS' EXAMINATION PAPERS " author="">

PLUMBERS' EXAMINATION PAPERS.

THE following are the examination papers used in the Examinations in plumbing by the city and Guilds of London Institute

ORDINARY GRADE.

1.	(a) How would you make a reliable joint between a lead branch and an iron soil-pipe? (b) How would you make reliable joints in a stack of Iron pipes receiving wastes from baths, sinks and used lavatories, with hot-water supply? (c) Describe the cements used for ordinary jointing purposes and their composition.

2.	(a) Give the composition of ordinary and fine solder, and the melting point of each. (b) If a pot of solder is "poisoned," i.e. rendered porous or unworkable by the introduction of some foreign substance, how would you remedy it? (c) What fluxes are used for jointing copper, brass, lead and iron to lead?

3.	Describe the process of autogenous soldering: when should it be used, and what are its advantages?

4.	How should sheet lead be set out and cut in order to line a sink 2 feet long by 1 foot wide inside, 12 inches deep at back and sides, and six inches deep in front, with 71b. lead, turned over on top edges 1 1/2 inches all around? Describe or show by sketch. What would be the total weight of the lead? What would be the total weight of the solder you would use?

5.	Show what you consider the best possible arrangement of waste pipe from a sink, bath or lavatory, with its discharge to drain.

6.	Sketch various forms of defective traps with which you are acquainted, and also improved kinds you would recommend in place of same.

7.	The well supply to cistern in an old house having permanently failed, it has become necessary to lay on the supply from the town main: what alterations would have to be made in order to efficiently accomplish this?

8.	The drain receiving large quantities of waste water from scullery sinks is frequently choked: what remedies would you suggest ?

9.	Enumerate the common effects found in waterclosets, which are bad in principle and construction, and show by sketch what kind of fittings you would suggest in place of same.

10.	Show or describe what you consider the most complete arrangement of waste-pipes and services for a range of three urinal basins with automatic flushing tank over, and proper surface drainage from floors, with the sizes of the various pipes?

11.	What precautions would you take in fixing the water pipe (a) from a refrigerator where food is stored, (b) from a sink or lavatory?

12.	Sketch a lead bend, elbow and set-oft; and enumerate the various tools required in the formation of same.

HONORS GRADE.

i.	What cisterns and pipes would you recommend for the storage and distribution of (a) rain-water, (b) hard water, (c) seawater? State your reasons for such selection.

2.	Describe the process of manufacture of milled sheet lead and pipe.

3.	Show in the accompanying sketch of sectional house, having a water-closet on each floor, bath on first floor, lavatory on ground door, and sink in basement, the plumbers' work required and the positions you would suggest for the above-mentioned fittings. Describe the form of each fitting you would use, and the size and the arrangements of the various service, soil and waste pipes.

4.	Show on the accompanying plan what arrangement you would adopt for a complete system of drainage for the house described above, arid give the various sizes of pipes, &c.

5.	A water-pipe running alongside a leaking drain receives an injury: describe the circumstances under which sewage can be sucked into the pipe at the point of injury while the pipe is charged with water. A cistern kept charged with water is situated in the roof of a house having three stories. A service pipe from this cistern supplies a bath on the first floor and a bath on the ground floor. Under what circumstances can water in the bath on the first floor be made to discharge through this pipe into the bath on the ground floor?

6.	Describe the principles of a common syphon, and state what is the greatest height a syphon will draw water when once set in action.

7.	It is impossible to obtain a good fall to a system of house drains: what precautions would you recommend to prevent stoppage? What do you consider the best and also the least fall to be allowed for a 6-inch main drain?

8.	Describe or show by sketch what methods you would adopt for ventilating a water-closet apartment which is not placed next external wall. and give your reasons.

9.	(a) Give some of the causes of " humming" noise in rising mains to cisterns. (b) What defects in a system of hot-water circulation will cause noises in the pipes, &c.? (c) Give causes of concussion in pipes and their remedies.

10.	Describe or show by sketch the "cylinder" system of hot-water circulation and the "tank" system, and give the advantages and disadvantages of each: explain the reason of hot-water circulating in the pipes.

11.	Show by plan and section how you would arrange a lead flat, 22 feet by 20 feet, giving size of bays and gutters and formation of approximate weight of the whole?

12.	What precautions would you take for the protection of fittings and service-pipes from frost in a country house situated in a very exposed position?





A HOUSE HEATING GAS FURNACE.

<article title=" A HOUSE HEATING GAS FURNACE " author="">

At the recent Industrial Exhibition in Toronto, there was exhibited by Mr. A. H. Dixon, of Toronto, a house heating gas furnace, the construction and modus operandi of which are thus described The furnace has a large fire chamber the air is admitted to the burners on both sides, through a perforated shield in fine streams over the top of burners. The products of combustion pass from fire chamber into the radiating drum, which entirely surrounds the fire chamber. Between the outer and inner casing of this drum is placed a partition which forms a flue and causes the product of combustion to pass four times around drum before reaching the exit flue to chimney. Besides the large surface of the outer and inner casing or sides of the drum, a series of tubes are placed in the drum, which extend through both top and bottom heads of drum and through the partition forming the winding flue, forming another large heating surface, as the cold air enters into the bottom end of the flues, and comes out heated at the top and passes into the dome of the furnace. The evaporating pan is placed on the top of the fire chamber, connecting to an outside reservoir; in this way the moisture from the inner pan distributes evenly to all the different pipes leading from furnace. The dome of the furnace is provided with an opening and allowing ready access to the water pan.





<article title=" ENAMELLING CAST IRON " author="">

ENAMELLING CAST IRON.



It is noted as a somewhat singular fact that there are not more than two processes for enamelling cast iron, notwithstanding the amount of ingenious effort put forth in this direction. One of these is the hot process, in which the iron, heated to a vivid heat, is powdered with a flux powder, borosilicate of lead, distributed with a sieve, then heated, and, when the flux fuses, it is powdered afresh with glass more soluble, forming the glaze of the enamel; but this operation is attended with danger, and is not adapted to large articles or for decoration. The second process, which meets the objections named, consists in dressing or coating the article first with magnetic oxide, then dipping it in borosilicate of lead, coloured by metallic oxides, to which is added a little pipeclay, in order to give rather more body. The article thus covered cold, by dipping or with brushes, is put into the furnace, the enamel adhering and vitrifying at the usual furnace temperature used by enamellers, and by putting a coating of coloured enamel with a brush on a first coat simply plain, it is possible to make any decorations desired.



<article title=" CONCERNING CHIMNEYS " author="">



CONCERNING CHIMNEYS.



AMERICANS do not make as much of chimneys as do most of the builders of European countries. The builder is not sufficiently honest about his chimneys. Either he gives them undue prominence, overloads them with decorated material, or he treats them as though he were afraid of them. The chimneys of Amsterdam are beautiful indeed and add greatly to the picturesqueness of that city. Likewise in Paris, while they are there treated in a way somewhat more decorative than is common to the rest of the world, they are handled in an honest way, no effort being made to conceal them, and their decorative works is that of artists. There is often the idea that the chimney should maintain a symmetrical relation to the rest of the building. However, in no section of the world do we find a high regard for symmetry in chimneys successful ; on the contrary, we find the most beautiful chimneys in that part of the world where they are allowed to have largely their own way; coming out of a building in unexpected places and unexpected ways and decorated by the hand of an artist.—The Clay Worker.







A very important conference on the practical setting and workmanship of artisans is likely to arise out of the Building Trades Conference that was held recently at the County Hall, Springgardens, London. It will perhaps be recollected that on the motion of Mr. Gay, chairman of the London Building Trades Federation, it was decided to appoint a committee to consider the whole question of apprenticeship. That committee has carefully considered the matter. A draft has been prepared of the preliminary report, which it is proposed should be discussed at a general conference of all the trade unions and industrial bodies that evince a desire to attend. Among the subjects are the following To consider the existing opportunities for a boy to obtain a thorough training as a skilled artisan—viz., (a) apprenticeship—its gradual discontinuance and its possible restoration (b) technical instruction—its proper direction, whether theoretical or practical, the character of the existing classes and their comparative utility, the local distribution of the classes with relation to the nee(1s of the district, the character of the supervision of the existing classes, the restriction of the classes to men actually engaged in the various trades, and the question of assisting the various teaching bodies.

