<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



ANNUAL MEETING OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" ANNUAL MEETING OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

THE Province of Quebec Association of Architects met in annual session on Thursday, October the 4th, at 10.30 a.m., in their



rooms in the New York Life Building, Montreal, the President,

Mr. J. Nelson, in the chair. Among those present were: Messrs.

J.	Nelson, President; C. Bai1lairge, Vice-President A. C.

Hutchison, 2nd Vice-President and Acting Secretary J. Z.

Resther, Treasurer A. T. Taylor, E. Mann and J. Venne,

Councilors S. Lesage, A. F. Dunlop, Jos. Perrault, L. Z.

Gauthier, H. C. Nelson, V. Roy, J. Z. Resther, F. X. Berlinguet,

G.	A. Monette, T. Daoust, M. Perrault, W. E. Doran, W. McLea Walbank, G. XV. Wood, A. H. Lapierre, J. R. Gardiner, A.

Boileau, etc.

The annual report of the Council, read by the Acting Secretary, stated that at the semi-annual examination in January four candidates presented themselves for admission to the study of architecture. Of these three passed. During last winter arrangements were made for the members of the Association resident in Montreal to meet once a month at dinner and subsequently to listen to papers and lectures. The Council regretted that these opportunities for social intercourse and instruction were not taken advantage of in the manner it was thought they would have been. Early last fall the Council endeavored to form classes for students engaged in architects' offices, in order to afford instruction in branches of study not usually obtained in an office, and so prepare them for passing their examinations. It was regretted that owing to the difficulty in obtaining teachers and to the lack of interest in the matter by members and students, these classes had to be abandoned. The Council strongly urged upon the Association the necessity of establishing classes for the systematic study of the several branches of architecture, either in direct connection with the Association or in connection with an university. During the year the number of books in the library has been slightly increased by purchase and donation.

The report submitted by the Treasurer, Mr. L. Z. Resther, was of a very satisfactory character.

The reports of the Council and the Treasurer having been adopted, the election of officers was proceeded with, and resulted as follows, the scrutineers being Messrs. E. Mann and A. H. Lapierre

President—Mr. Charles Baillairge, Quebec.

1st Vice-President—Mr. A. C. Hutchison, Montreal.

2nd Vice-President Mr. A. T. Taylor, Montreal.

Secretary—Mr. J. Venne, Montreal.

Treasurer-—M r. Joseph Perrault, Montreal.

Council—Messrs. A. F. Dunlop, J. Nelson, A. Raza, L. Z. Gauthier, Montreal F. X. Berlinguet and J. B. Bertrand, Quebec.

Auditors—Messrs. L. Z. Resther and W. McLea Walbank, Montreal.

The most pleasing part of the morning session then took place. It was the presentation of a large photographic group of the Montreal members of the Association to their confreres in Quebec. The photograph, which is placed in an antique frame, is a really fine specimen of the photographer's art. Mr. Jas. Nelson having explained that he and Mr. Taylor had been charged by the Montreal members with the arrangements for the picture, called upon Mr. Taylor to make the presentation. That gentleman alluded to the fact that the Montreal members had already received a photograph group of their Quebec confreres, and the former felt that the least they could do was to reciprocate as soon as possible. It was hoped that the photograph would be received and kept by the brethren in Quebec as a pleasant memento, and that for many years to come their successors might look at it and see the gentlemen who started the Association and carried on the work for so long.

The newly-elected President returned thanks on behalf of the Quebec members, and spoke of the artistic merit of the picture, saying that although the idea of the Quebec and Montreal sections of the Association presenting photographic groups to each other had perhaps originated with the former, the latter had improved upon it in many ways. The photograph represents forty-three Montreal members of the Association assembled in a  handsome room, the background being a reproduction of a view of the Senate Chamber in the Palace of the Doges in Venice.

Mr. F. X. Berlinguet also briefly returned thanks, after which the gathering adjourned for luncheon.



AFTERNOON SESSION.



The newly-elected President occupied the chair at the afternoon session, which opened at 2:30, and contributed the following paper:

FOUNDATIONS IN DEEP AND UNRELIABLE SOILS.

<article title=" FOUNDATIONS IN DEEP AND UNRELIABLE SOILS " author="Hutton, R. W.">

An article in the Engineering Record of New York, on Foundations of High Buildings. by W. R. Hutton, M. Am. Soc. C. E. etc., has reminded me that in the Province of Quebec we have had several failures of an expensive nature to make good, due to faulty foundations. as at Jolietie. St. Bazile, St. Casimir, Nicolet, etc. and in Upper Canada at Cornwall and elsewhere.

As it is more satisfactory to know exactly how the foundations of certain tall and heavy structures have been built, than to learn from any treatise on the subject how they should be laid down, I shall first summarize Mr. Hutton's article as extremely interesting and instructive to the profession,

and then allude to the Canadian cases mentioned. In New York the rock is at from 15 to 50 and 70 feet below the surface, and overlaid by yellow sand mixed with clay and containing pockets or beds of quicksand. Many buildings rest on piles driven to refusal, though not necessarily to, nor always to, the rock. Under the city building law, each pile may be loaded with 20 tons. The permanent wet level is about that of high tide in the harbor and piles, not to decay, should be cut off at or about this level—dry seasons and deep drains, which may lower it being taken into consideration. When gap occurs in the rock and bottom can not be reached, an arm is thrown over to carry the walls above it, as was done in the case of the Washington (Field) Building on Baitery Place.



The method of founding directly on the sand is gaining favor. The Equitable Building' and the Union Trust" are so built with wide footings loading the soil to 2 and 2 1/2 tons to the square foot. The ' World" and "Times' buildings have similar foundations. Older buildings at only a few feet below the surface have suffered, probably from the lateral flow of quick-sand into deeper neighboring excavations. the newer buildings are at too great a depth to render such a result at all probable. When test pits are sunk and quick-sand makes its appearance, endangering adjoining structures, concrete should be at hand to promptly fill the pit and prevent the danger.

To save the cost of 15 to 20 feet of underpinning to the old walls of contiguous buildings, the foundations of the Methodist Book Concern were built in alternate piers surrounded with sheet piling the intermediate piers then put in; the whole arched over and the walls raised upon them. In the case of the Manhattan Life Insurance Building 353 feet high above street level, with foundations feet deep to rock—a total of 408 feet—piles enough could not be driven to bear the great weight. The system adopted was that of pneumatic caissons. Fifteen of them, of which eleven are square, varying from 13 X 13 feet, to 21 X 26 feet, and four circular ones from 9 to x15 feet, in diameter, cover some 4.000 square feet, or about halt the area of the site. The collective area of the caisson is proportioned to the maximum pressure allowed by city regulations. namely, from 150 lbs. to the square inch (say eleven tons to the foot), the brick piers being somewhat smaller as they may be loaded to 200 lbs. to the inch, 144 tons to the foot. The caisson roof is strengthened with I beams. The whole area is excavated to 20 feet in depth below the Broadway level, and the caissons are sunk by means of compressed air 35 feet further to the rock They pass through 12 feet of fine micaceous sand, layers of mud with sand, of silt, of clay mixed with sand, and a very hard conglomerate over the usual gneiss rock. The caissons were sunk by excavating the soil beneath them from the inside, and by the weight of the brick piers simultaneously built upon them, and to avoid an inflow of quicksand which might occur when the air pressure was reduced by blowing out the semi-fluid material through pipes, it was decided in the beginning to remove all material in buckets through the air locks but upon trial it was ascertained that the pressure could be maintained while blowing Out by running the compression faster, and the soft earth was thus removed. It is to be noted that any flow of quicksand from outside the lines of the caisson might have caused settlements of the neighboring buildings. When the caissons reached the rock they were filled solidly with concrete. "At the date of writing," says Ilution (September, 1893), "nearly all the caissons had been sunk to place and no appreciable cracks had occurred in adjacent buildings, one of which rests on piles at the level or the general excavations (20 feet below street level as already stated), the other on the natural soil several feet above. The cost of these feet foundations is said to have been ten per cent. of the entire cost of the building. A commendable feature in the Manhattan Life Building" is the symmetrical distribution of the load upon each pier. Commonly foundation walls are built upon the outside edge or the property, with the footings almost entirely inside the thickness of the wall, concentrating upon the outer edge of the foundation pressures much above the average. In the Manhattan Life," the supports are centrally or symmetrically placed upon the caissons, and strong steel girders extending from side to side of the building sustain the side walls in Cantilever," to borrow a form of expression from the French. The engineer-contractors of the building, Messrs. Soozsmith & Co., made an interesting application of the same method in founding the draw pier of the Seventh Avenue bridge, New York. This is a circular pier feet in diameter. Their experience having convinced them that there was great risk of cracks in the masonry from irregular movements of a very large caisson, this one was made annular in plan, 59 feet in outside diameter and 10 feet wide. 'When sunk upon the site, cemented to the rock and filled with concrete, it formed a cofferdam within which it was expected to build the masonry '' in the dry' after the water was pumped out, but seams in the rock bottom of the central space admitted water faster than it could be removed by pumps. and t became necessary to cover the bottom with a layer of concrete put in place under water t close the seams and permit the completion of the pier r.

In Chicago f foundations ions are more difficult and costly, due to the fact that instead of only 30 feet t 50 feet, as in New York, there is from 6o to 100 feet of blue drift clay overlying the rock, a material having a greater avidity for water r and containing beds of quick-sand. and yet upon this soil Chicago boasts some of the highest buildings yet erected. Formerly platforms of timber were imbedded in the clay, and piles rarely driven to the rock, but the great weight of recent structures requires that piles be driven to the rock, and the tops cut off below all future drainage, that they may be always in the wet , or detached foundations under each wall and pier. with footings carefully proportioned in area 10 the weight to come upon them and to the resistance of the soil. The best practice limits the weight to 3.000 lbs. per square foot, or say 1 1/2 tons, but this is frequently exceeded. Some settlement is expected, and ii is sought. by proportioning surfaces to weights as far as possible. to render the settling uniform.

As the wide footings when of masonry must be built in high and narrow ofisets, forming a truncated by amid under each pier or thus robbing basement floors of much of their height, the practice in Chicago and elsewhere, due to the comparative cheapness of iron or steel bars and beams, is to form the footings of tiers of these bar laid on a concrete foundation, each successive tier laying g across or at right angles to the one below, or along and across the wall alternately, and as their greater transverse strength allows of a greater breadth of offset, the reduced thickness or the walls is reached more rapidly or in a lesser height, not exceeding from i8 to 30 inches instead of from to 8 feet in some cases where of masonry. The weight is said to be also thus reduced by about 4 per cent, of the load upon the pier. The bars or beams sometimes of second hand railroad iron, are first dipped in hot asphalt or tar, carefully bedded on and filled in, and covered with concrete to protect the metal from rust. Such a foundation is of course, dependent an being at such a depth that the adjoining soil be undisturbed. As on account of the soft nature of the clay, as glaziers' putty, it must flow laterally if not prevented front doing so, just as water supporting a vessel in a lock would do, or dry sand, any structure, if not laterally retained by some solid surrounding. Some large buildings in Chicago have been erected upon a continuous platform of concrete, covering the whole area of the structure. The serious irregular settlement of a prominent public building constructed in this way. accompanied by cracks in the walls and in the concrete platform, has brought the method into disfavor. It has

