<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



Government Board of Manufactures or such other bodies as might be arranged. Had such a committee been in existence I feel sure some monuments which have recently been put up in our city would have been relegated to the limb of Philistinish things, and we should have been spared many painful sights.

Both New York and Boston go further even than this, however, for in these two cities Municipal Art Societies have been established, with the express object of providing adequate sculptural and pictorial decorations for the public buildings and parks. I understand that the first work done in this way in New York was the decoration of a wall in the new Criminal Court Building, and other work of a similar kind is contemplated. All such efforts are entirely praiseworthy. and the liberality of generous-hearted men might well find an additional channel in the beautifying of our public buildings by painting and sculpture.

Nature has done much for our city, rolling a magnificent river past our doors, and heaving up a beautiful verdure-clad eminence for our habitations to cluster round let us do our part in making these habitations worthy of their natural surroundings, so that they may be healthy, comfortable and beautiful—worthy dwelling-places of a happy, virtuous and contented people.



These two papers were listened to very attentively and were much appreciated. On the proposition of Mr. W. E. Doran, seconded by Mr. J. Z. Resther, a hearty vote of thanks was accorded the contributors for the papers, after which the meeting adjourned.

<article title=" THE CONVERSAZIONE " author="">

THE CONVERSAZIONE.

A delightful conversazione was given in the evening in the galleries of the Art Association to inaugurate the opening of the Exhibition of Architectural Drawings under the auspices of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. There was a large and fashionable assemblage of people.



Gruenwald's Band discoursed sweet music, and refreshments were served during the evening in the large class room adjoining the gallery. The evening was a thoroughly enjoyable one. This is the first Exhibition of the kind held in Montreal, and has proved snore successful than the promoters had ventured to hope for, and may be taken as a favorable augury of what will be accomplished in the future.



The following is a list of the drawings exhibited

Gordon & Helliwell, Toronto—Church of the Messiah, Toronto; residence of Captain S. Crangle, Toronto ; Town Hall and Market, Orillia, Ont. Darling & Curry, Toronto—Church of St. Mary Magdalen, Toronto; Organ of St. James Cathedral, Toronto Competitive Design for Ontario Legislative Buildings, one large perspective in pen and ink, and two elevations of the same. Frank Darling, Toronto—Head Master's House, Port Hope School, Ont.; house at Niagara ; house on College Ave., Toronto. W. A. Langton, Toronto-—Sketch St. Hilda's College, Toronto. Siddall & Baker, Toronto—Nos. 12 and 14 Colborne street, Toronto (stores) ; railway station at Janesville ; staircase to Music Room, Nordheimer's Building, Toronto ; perspective of Competitive Design for Government Buildings, British Columbia. Thos. Fuller, R.C.A., Ottawa—Public Building, Brockville, Ont.; Public Building Sorel, P. Q; two views of Public Buildings at Gait, Out.; design for Superintendent's residence, Experimental Farm, Ottawa ; Public Building, Victoria, B.C.; Drill Hall, Toronto; Public Building, Charlottetown, P.E.I. R. Dawson, Toronto—Residence of A. T. Lytle. A. T.Taylor, F. .R.I.B.A., Montreal—Interior sketches of house at Ottawa ; street scene in Louvain ; Hon. Geo. A. Drummond's residence, Montreal Bank of Toronto, Montreal ; Bank of Montreal, west end branch, Montreal ; seconded premiated design for Glasgow Municipal Buildings, Scotland ; the Engineering Building, McGill College; the Redpath Library, McGill College ; interior view Bank of Montreal Head Office; Almhouses, Chiselhurst, England; scene in Perugia, Italy ; the Cathedral, Malineo, Belgium ; the Physics Building, McGill College ; Bank of Montreal, Vancouver, B. C.; Siena Cathedral, Italy; view in Ghent, St. Antonio, Padua. A. C. Hutchison, R.C.A., Montreal— Residence of C. E. L. Porteous, Montreal ; residence of W. W. Ogilvie, Rapids Farm ; Cote St. Antoine Academy ; Erskine Church, Montreal Young Women's Christian Association Building, Montreal ; design for a Bank ; Montreal High School ; 'Window, Front Gable Erskine Church, Montreal. Brown & McVicar, Montreal— Residence of F. G. Guadinger, Montreal; residence of George Hyde, Montreal ; Taylor's Church, Montreal ; Masonic Temple, Montreal. David R. Brown, Montreal—Westminster Church.

I).	Norman McVicar, Montreal—Tower of Eglise St. Jean, Amiens ; Calle off Grand Canal Venice. Miss M. P. Taylor, Edinburgh—St. Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh; Norman Staircase, Canterbury ; interior of St. Mark's, Venice. Edward Maxwell, Montreal —Study for residence of H. Vincent Meredith, Montreal ; group of three sketches for country houses ; view in hall of house for General Manager Bank of Montreal, also exterior view of same ; business premises of R. Sharpley & Sons, Montreal ; residence for Hugh A. Allan, Montreal ; residence of D. McIntyre, Montreal ; Competitive Design for Masonic Temple, Montreal. J. W. and E. C. Hopkins, Montreal—Merchants' Bank, Montreal residence of R. 13. Angus, Montreal ; business premises of John Murphy & Co., Montreal; North British and Mercantile Insurance Co.'s Building, Montreal ; Bank of Montreal, Ottawa ; the J. C. Wilson Building, Montreal ; Montreal Street Railway Co.'s new building, Montreal. E. C. Hopkins, Montreal—St. Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin. Dunlop & Heriot, Montreal—St. George's Church Tower; houses for I)i. F. W. Campbell, Montreal; proposed residence for Hugh Graham,

Montreal. A. F. Dunlop, R.C.A., Montreal—Residence, Edgehill avenue, Montreal ; Ice Grotto, Victoria Rink, Montreal; "Dunlop of Dunlop," Ayrshire; St. James Methodist Church.

J. C. A. Heriot—Design for a Country House; design for a Country Church ; design for a Suburban Residence. Perrault, Mesnard & Venne, Montreal—-Church for Pawtucket, U. S. A.; Church of the Sacred Heart ; Laval University, Montreal Banque do People Building, Montreal ; perspective of first scheme for Monument National, Montreal ; elevation Monument National, Montreal ; design for a church. A. Raza, Montreal—St. Bridget School, Montreal ; residence for AId. A. Dubuc, Montreal residence for AId. J. Brunet, Montreal. W. McLea WaIbank B.A.S., Montreal ; residence for Dr. F. Buller, Montreal ; competition design for Masonic Temple, Montreal competition design for Montreal Board of Trade. R. Findlay, Montreal—Residence of Jas. Morgan, St. Anne de Bellevue; Son Life Building, Montreal. Roy & Gauthier, Montreal—--Competition design for Chicago Court House, U. S. A.; houses St. Louis Square, Montreal ; Sacred Heart Church, Ottawa, Ont.; college at St. Thereze, P. Q. J. R. Rhind, Montreal—Competition design for St. John the Divine Cathedral, New York competition design for Masonic Temple, Montreal ; premiated design for Protestant Orphans' Asylum, Montreal. A. Flockton, Montreal—Residence of L. H. Taylor, Montreal. J. and H. C. Nelson, Montreal-—Design for an Educational Institution. J. Rawsou Gardiner, Montreal—Design for Business Block ; Choir Bolton Abbey; Old Houses, Sussex. Eric Mann, Montreal-—Design for an Office Building. A. J. Cooke, St. Lamberts -The Founder's Tomb, St. Bartholemew, Smithfield ; design for a Reredos ; design for a Font. C. Dufort, Montreal—Design for a Chamber of Commerce. G. A. Monette, Montreal—Design for a Villa Residence. P. B. Williams, Montreal—Design for Memorial Front, St. Michael's Mission, Stepuey, London, E. C. L. A. Venue—Design for a Country House ; study for stained glass, Head of our Lord, a fragment of window, and design for stained glass and decoration exhibited by Messrs. Castle & Son and Messrs. Spence & Son ; also a large cartoon for a window by Castle & Son, and five decorated plaster models of the Alhambra, which were kindly loaned by Mr. R. B. Angtis for exhibition.

On each side of the two doors are beautiful examples of old Chinese wrought iron work, lent by the Hon. Geo. A. Drummond. They are all four floral studies of chrysanthemums and lilies, most interesting and perfect in their design and finish. In the entrance hall two vigorous plaster models are exhibited by Mr. Hall, and in the doorway is hung a beautiful eastern camp sent by Mr. D. A. Watt.

Mr. A. T. Taylor contributed some fine water color sketches of picturesque views and scenes in Italy. Amongst the many beautiful buildings erected in the Romanesque style by this author, the West End Branch of the Bank of Montreal, the Red-path Library and the Bank of Toronto may be mentioned. Another good bit of designing by the same a member is his competitive design for the Glasgow Municipal Buildings, of a classical character, and rendered in pen and ink, which was awarded the second premium amongst a large number of competitors. Mr. Edward Maxwell has also some very effective water color sketches, and his study for Mr. H. Vincent Meredith's house is nicely rendered.

Mr. A. C. Hutchison has some good pen and ink drawings— for instance, Mr. C. E. L. Porteous' house—original in conception and good in rendering, as are also his drawings of Erskine Church, his St. Antoine Academy and his house for Mr. Ogilvie.

The design of Mr. J. C. A. Heriot for a suburban residence possesses some merit.

We are glad to see the design of Messrs. Darling & Curry, of Toronto, for the Ontario Legislative Buildings, which ought to have been erected, and would have been an ornament to Toronto, and their perspective of the magnificent Church of St. Mary Magdalene, Toronto.

 Mr. J. R. Rhind has an ambitious design submitted in the competition for the St. John's Cathedral, New York, showing an immense deal of labor both in design and draughtsmanship.

Mr. A. F. Dunlop shows a view in pen and ink of St. James Methodist Church, which hardly does justice to the beauty of the original.

Siddall & Baker's design for the Government Buildings at Victoria, B. C., is well shown by a crisp pen and ink perspective.

Mr. Thos. Fuller has enriched the exhibition by a number of small but most daintily rendered water color perspectives of

 buildings he has designed.

Messrs. Perrault, Mesnard & Venue show a good sepia perspective of their Laval University, Montreal.

Mr. Findlay, amongst other things, shows a very picturesque country house at St. Anne's, and Mr. A. Raza two city residences in the Renaissance style and elaborately decorated.

For the first undertaking of the kind ever attempted in Montreal, the Exhibition is a marked success, and it ought to encourage the Province of Quebec Association of Architects to hold similar exhibitions at regular intervals in the future, which would do so much for the education of the public and the profession at large.

