<doctype type="text">verses by a number of the poets of our country, and as many as fifteen members of the League are represented by drawings, which consist of decorative settings harmonizing with the character of the literary contributions, four calendar pages and four full-page drawings illustrating the seasons. The cover is from a delicate and graceful design in purple gray, carmine, gold and white by Mr. <person>A. H. Howard,</person> and the excellence of the printing and engraving is assuredly a matter of very gratifying surprise. In these publications all the contributions have been volunteered purely as a labor of love, and no member personally derives any pecuniary profit from their success. If the venture prove profitable financially the surplus goes into the general locker, and as the League relies entirely on its own resources without support from the government or wealthy patrons, its treasury frequently has plenty of room for additions.





<article title=" PROPOSED CANADIAN INSTITUTE OF

 ARCHTECTS.

" author="">PROPOSED CANADIAN INSTITUTE OF

 ARCHTECTS.

At a recent meeting of the Montreal members of the <firm>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</firm>, Mr. <person>J. R. Gardiner </person>gave an address on the desirability of forming a Canadian Institute of Architects, and suggested the following as a basis of organization

Membership to consist of all members of the four provincial bodies, viz, Ontario, Quebec, Maritime Provinces and

<article title=" POINTS ON HEATING " author="">POINTS ON HEATING.

ONE of the greatest, if not the greatest, natural force in existence for the carrying off of heat is wind, and when we know something of the effects of wind in cooling buildings we learn to consider it more carefully, and plan more thoughtfully for the admission of light. For instance, in experiments with glass houses, a room heated to 70 with the outside temperature at zero, in still weather the inside temperature will be lowered 2O in five minutes and 45 seconds ; with the wind blowing three miles an hour the same result will be attained in two minutes and thirty-five seconds. 'When, however, this wind reaches a velocity of 27 miles an hour the time required to lower the temperature 20 is only 48 seconds Now it will be readily seen of what vast importance is the consideration of this one element alone, especially when we remember that there is hardly a day passes during the cold weather in our climate, where the velocity of the wind does not reach and many times go beyond the latter figure.

The materials entering into the construction of a building all have a known conducting power, and had we time and space we could give the ascertained conducting power in tabular form. It is not the intent of this short article to go into details, but in a few instances to give the reader some points of vital importance provided he intends to build,

The manner in which a building is put together determines



























































<assoc>TORONTO ART STUDENTS' LEAGUE</assoc>-—DRAWING FROM PHOTOGRAPH.



the Western Provinces. Any architect in the Maritime or Western Provinces to be made a member direct to the Canadian Institute instead of through the Provincial body until having a body of their own.

The Council of the Canadian Institute to Consist of members of the four provinces elected by their several bodies. Each Province to select two members for the first 50 members on their roll book, three members if more than 50, and four if over one hundred. The province of Quebec to be represented by not more than two out of three or four members out of one nationality. In case where there is no provincial body, members of that province will be able to vote through the Dominion body.

The duties of the Dominion Association will be 1, To amend the charter, which is to include a tariff of professional charges, which is to be passed in the Dominion Parliament so as to be legally the same throughout the Dominion, a copy of the tariff to be sent to every member 2, To set examination papers which are to be sent to the provincial bodies on the same (late, and where there are sufficient numbers of candidates to be worth while having an examination. The said examination papers to be returned after the examination, sealed, to the Canadian Institute, who will examine same and report at their meeting 3, To set rules for the guidance of members in competitions;

4, To hold competitions for members and students at which prizes and travelling studentship will be awarded annually 5th, To decide any arguments brought up by the provincial body 6th, The Council to meet semi-annually in Toronto and Montreal. The first meeting to be in Toronto.

largely how much of a plant will be required to neat it comfortably. If built in a loose manner, so that, as the saying is, " "you can through a cat through the crevices,' no heating engineer, however expert a calculator he may be, could tell to a certainty, how much heat would be required; for ofttimes a building of this construction will require many times more heat than one well built.

People often remark that were they able they would build a brick house, believing that such a house would be much warmer than a frame one. But on the contrary, experiment has shown that a frame building lathed and plastered inside, and covered outside with paper felt, sheathed and clapboarded, will lose seventy-five per cent, less heat than a brick one of the same thickness of wall. There is a loss of about 25 per cent, more heat without the paper felt than with. There is another thing that people do not often think of in the construction of buildings and that is the amount of glass that is used in the building of the structure. More window surface than just enough to properly light a room is a constant expense in cold weather and the expense is no inconsiderable amount when the time extends over a period of years. The comparative loss of heat between a square foot of glass and a square foot of 12 inch brick wall is as

to 6, that is a square foot of glass will lose as much heat as 6 square feet of 12 inch brick wall. Not many people consider the advantages to be obtained by the use of what is termed the double sash. Careful experiments show that when fitted with this kind of sash 75 per cent, less heat is lost than with the single window.

