<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT BUILDER



<assoc>BRITISH COLUMBIA INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS.</assoc>

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS " author="">BRITISH COLUMBIA INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS

The third annual meeting of the British Columbia Institute of Architects took place in Victoria on the 2nd of December, 1893. The society comprises twenty-four members, of whom the following were elected as officers and Council for the ensuing year



President—- <person>C. 0. Wickenden</person>, Vancouver.

I St Vice- President——<person>R. B. Bayne</person>, Victoria.

2nd Vice-President--<person>C. J. Soule</person>, Victoria.

Hon. Treasurer—<person>E, Mallanclaine</person>, Victoria.

Council—<person>C. E. Sharp</person>, New Westminster <person>T. Hooper</person>, <person>R. E. Day</person>, <person>J. G. Tiarks</person>, <person>S.A. McClure</person>, <person>Victoria A. E. McCartney</person>, Vancouver; <person>T. Honeyman</person>, Nanaimo.

Hon. Secretary <person>C. E. Sharp</person>.

The business transacted was, excepting one subject, of the usual ordinary routine kind.

The question as to whether the "Architects' Registration Bill " was to be brought before the Legislature in the coining session was discussed, and the outcome of the discussion was that it was the opinion of the meeting that it would probably best further the object to be attained, to place the society in communication with the eastern societies to ascertain what if anything was being done by them, and to consider the question as a Dominion one. With this object, the Secretary of the society will be instructed by the Council to communicate with the eastern societies on the subject.

The competition question has been unfortunately of the too frequent heart-burning and unsatisfactory character, and on a motion before the meeting it was determined to communicate with the Ontario society, obtain copies of their particulars of competitions, and if considered suitable to our wants, adopt them.



The question of the recent competition in Victoria for ward schools occupied considerable attention of the meeting. It was the opinion of the meeting that after a public competition had been called for, faith was broken with the competitors in the action of some of the members of the School Board in the selection of an inferior plan for one of the wards. A circumstance that lends additional force to this professional opinion is, that the ratepayers of the North Ward petitioned against this selection for a school building being carried Out 00 such a design for that ward.



The report of the Council for the closing year was accepted and passed, and the meeting closed with the following address from the vice-president occupying the chair



<article title=" VICE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS " author="">VICE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS

In the unavoidable absence of our President, the duty of making your presidential address devolves upon me as your senior vice-president. I regret it to some extent, as the action I have lately taken in your Council may be looked upon as likely to prejudice me in my remarks when touching on the vexed question of competitions.

Since our last meeting in Vancouver, a period of unexampled dullness has prevailed in our profession—we have not a single new member to welcome at the same time, so far, we have not a single new resignation to record, and I think with brighter times and more doing that we might contend upon several new men who have not yet joined us. 1 hope that the seeming indifference in lack of attendance of many of our members doss not foreshadow dissolution. Busier times may perhaps bring with it a little more enthusiasm and interest if such improvement does emerge, I venture to express the hope that we may in the coming year meet more frequently than see hare done in the past one, and that our meetings may he, as they should, the means of stimulating energy and enthusiasm amongst us, and I would urge upon all to make some liute effort to a better attendance (to-day half Our members are not present), and to make occasionally if required seine self-sacrifice in order to attend, and to contribute from your individual stores of experience and knowledge for our mutual benefit. In Vicious we inaugurated at the beginning of this season a series of hi monthly meetings for the reading of and discussion after of matters professional, but this for tack of attendance fell through at the fourth meeting.

You all know the fate of our Architects' Bill" more badly beaten than its predecessor. We have already discussed this question, and our decision is quite in accord with my own feelings that we should wait, as decided on <person>Mr. Soule's</person> proposition, and put ourselves in communication with our eastern brethren.

Since our last annual meeting, at which we patted ourselves on the back at our success in regulating, or being in a fair way to regulate, public competitions, we have passed through three. In the first—the Government Official Buildings, which fell in the lot of a Vancouver architect—happy proof of the honesty of Victoria architects and freedom from undue influence—and a happy instance of the satisfaction following the selection of professional arbitrators. <person>Mr. Sorby</person>, of our city, secured one of the five honors, with, to my way of thinking, a charming hit of design, most artistically executed, thoroughly English in character, the work of an artist. Next we have to record the competition for the Protestant Orphan Asylum, under conditions more or less framed by ourselves, and carrying a treatise prohibiting any canvassing of the committee-—a work brought to completion and recently opened—a competition that carried with it so far as I have heard no dissatisfaction. Of the third competition, the least said the better; it goes to show that all our self-congratulations last year were premature. I hope our action will prevent repetition.

About this time last year, at a Council meeting, some of your members formed themselves into a self-constituted committee, to frame by-laws for this city, and after some five or six meetings had been held, this too fell through—not because we were too busy to devote the time, but I fancy from an unexpressed feeling that our work, while voluntary, was soperorogatory, rend perhaps if completed would have been a thankless task it certainly would have been valuable if worked out. It also, I think, grew so in magnitude as we worked at it that, without admitting it to each other, we shirked it.

In occupying this chair to-night. T am going to indulge in a little criticism of the past year's work in the buildings of this city. Of course, you can form your own opinion of my remarks, and after I have finished criticize them at your will.

There were two completed buildings in Victoria in the past year that will call for much more than a passing note. A departure from the general run is seen in the Temple building offices of Messrs. <firm>Ward & Co</firm>., a red brick and terra cotta building that suffers from its close juxtaposition with its high neighbor, and is dwarfed by it. I would more like to feet with reference to it that the sselt designed and treated terra cotta detail was made for it, and not its facade for the detail There is in some grilles to the ground floor windows some seriously good iron work,

The Davie block is another new block I would make a passing reference to. Some of you will remember the Times' criticisms, and the criticisms on such criticisms that followed, and the amusing reference to " Dog Latin

styles—Romanesque. 'For one who has studied Romanesque art in its native country such references will certainty be amusing. The term Romanesque as applied out here is a misnomer in every sense. 'the Five Sisters block was so called by the same authorities when the designs for it were first seen, I do not like the trabeated architecture affected here by some of our architects in the use of roughly hewn stone; it looks coarse, especially when used in a third and fourth story and the zinc shams, such as find place in this block, ire I think to be condemned as untruthful and unconstructive. Better put up with plainer and simpler forms if economy can to be taken into account.

The new Protestant Orphans' Home, perched as it is on a bill, might have had a more effective outline than it has. and the money spent on brick decoration, which is not seen until close under the building, might have been devoted to carrying up the roof of the semi-circular portions of the front.

It remains to be seen what the two new ward school buildings will be when completed. There is a breadtb of treatment about the North ward building that show's up effectually at present, if it is not going to be crushed in appearance by the roof.



I think that I may include the Board of 'trade new building in this year's completion. I do not like it in hardly a single feature. I do not like to see a building standing as it does, the end and flank to the sea approach to Victoria, as factory-like in its want of treatment as this is, and there are bits of eccentricity in the facade that scent to be single indulgences as freaks of design—objectless. It is an error, I think, to putt at such a height as is done here minute detail, and in the crowning feature of the cornice grotesqueness culminates in the intersecting ornaments—of tin--at the corners. The middle stage is decidedly weak in design, and the plan seems to be more of a puzzle than an economical arrangement, in its broken stairs and crooked passages, and is badly lighted in many places.

I was one of the Victoria members of our Association who attended last year's meeting in Vancouver, and in the company of your other vice-president made the most of our time in seeing that city—grown out of all recognition to me since taking ii in my visit front India in the latter paint of 1888. We paid considerable attention and went over noose new buildings under construction—and this period of construction is, as you all know, the time when shams stand unveiled, and when true construction can be seen. We were both forcibly impressed with the difference in character of the work done in Victoria and that clone in Vancouver. In Vancouver the buildings have a degree of solidity and truth in them that is sadly wanting in buildings in our Capital City ; ohm are nitty too often what I look on as mere match-box constructions. I think  architects should kick against it. I know where the difficulty comes in. Architect A, inclined to go in for something better than mere lath and plaster partition walls, goes in for brick in accordance with good by-law construction  and the credit of his profession; he would soon be put out of the field by 7., perhaps a needy self-styled architect, who, creeping in behind A, informs A's client that he, 7., can save am least $1000 of cost, said client being left entirely in the dark as to where and how the so-called saving comes in. To my mind A should carefully and thoroughly urge upon his client the question of stability and solidity as against jerry work," and then only on his client accepting responsibility, go in opposition to 7., and fight him with his own weapons. I fear, though, that some of our clients, if reports are true, play you oft one against the other and then take the cheapest; some of you sell your work Dutch auction bidding. lit my three years of residence in Victoria, 1 have seen such construction as I would not have ventured on, and yet in my work and practice in India I have done work in construction much bolder than my peers. the work I refer to as done in Victoria in not healthy work of construction, and I think it regrettable that in the Capital of the province our architects should feel impelled to do such work—that such work should tie looked on as a necessity. Men as owners of such work cannot, I think, have had them built as investments—nitty to sell—and ecco then false economy.



was very much surprised only the other day to learn that thin Building Inspector in Victoria has it in his power to alter a detail of construction in an architect's design, I should protest against such interference in the construction details in a competent architect's work; I mean one who may be reasonably credited with possessing sufficient knowledge of construction, think that with good bin-laws and a good Inspector to see them honestly carried out, interference with an architect's construction should not be called for, and with good by-law's, not restrictive ones, and a resolute enforcement of them, such buildings an I have concentrated on would not be perpetrated.

It is within my province to-day to enter my protest against the recent action of thee bricklayers of this city in their striking against the appointment of a clerk of works not belonging to their organization. appointed for the municipal supervision of their work by the municipal authorities, amid I anticipate that you are all of one mind. If such action and claim as they made were once acceded to, on such a plaint as was theirs, it would place us architects quite at their dictation.

Before we meet again. gentlemen, let us hope that things may improve with us all, rind that we will be all busy omen as now too many of run are idle men.

The next annual meeting of the society was fixed for New Westminster, on the first Friday in November, 1894.





Red slate in of recent discovery. The most beautiful of its class, it ranks among the costliest material in ruse for constructional purposes. In the northern part of Washington County, N. Y. within a circle less than fifteen miles in diameter, are said to he the only red slate quarries ever found. 'There are two parallel veins about five miles apart ; the one known as the Granville vein being best adapted for roofing purposes ; the other. in Hatch district, sued of softer quality, can be sawed into floor tiles and house trimmings.

A discovery for hanging paper on damp walls in being put to a practical test in Germany. It consists of coating a lining-paper on one side with a solution of shellac spirit, of somewhat greater consistency than the ordinary French polish, and then banging it with utuc side thus treatment to the damp wall. The paper-banging in theme performed in the usual manner with paste. Any other resin that is equally soluble in spirits may hue tuned in place of the shellac. According to the representations, thin process in footed equally effective in preventing the penetration of dampness.

