<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



with Mr. Baker he agreed that the subject was one that might fairly enlist important consideration from the architects of the country.

xxxx

The Bystander was amused by the rejoinder made to his enquiry by another well-known architect. This gentleman said

"I do not know anything about the London competition. Our firm certainly did not enter the competition, and have not been asked to sign any petition objecting to the award. But these people who have found themselves disappointed ought never to have entered the competition. They ought to have known better than to have expected anything like fair dealing in these competitions. We have long since refused to endeavor to secure business in this manner, having learned from our experience that the man who has the biggest pull on interested parties, or who has become an adept in wire pulling, is usually the one who 'gets there.' We are out of that kind of business." The argument was one, that seemed to give force to the contention of Mr. Siddall, that it was time for architects to unite in an effort to remedy so rank an evil. But when taking steps to remove the mote out of their neighbor's eye, what about the beam that may l)e in their own ? The Bystander has had this question suggested to him through a remark made by a builder a few days ago "I never think of tendering for work in the hands of Mr. So-and-So, naming a certain local architect, for my experience has been that his office is a close corporation, and tenders for buildings of which he has control never go outside of a certain favored circle." Surely it cannot be that the architects of Canada will allow themselves to be tainted in any way with the spirit, and indeed the practice, of corruption, that seems to float about the air these days as do the bacilli of so many diseases that attack the physical man.

xxx x



The death on the 7th October. at his home, Beverley, Mass., of Oliver Wendell Holmes, the genial and clever author of the Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table, reminds one of a remark of the dead "Autocrat," when urging people who have information to impart of service to their fellowmen, "to set their thought-sprinklers to work." The Bystander in his journalistic experience has found it one of the hardest things possible to get men—ladies are excepted of course—to tell what they know to others. Every newspaper editor realizes how difficult it is to get men, well informed and with the ability to do the work, to put their pen to paper and to impart from out of their knowledge in formation of benefit to their fellowmen. It is sometimes almost as difficult to get some people to talk about what they know. They are as mum as an oyster, keeping their thoughts hermetically sealed. The Bystander has no brief from the editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER to quietly probe this journal's readers and ask them to be a little more generous in their discussion of matters of interest to others in the same line of business, but he is quite sure, if the editor is like other editors, that he will appreciate the setting to work of the "thought-sprinklers" of his readers. The By stander, as he meets with the architects and builders of the country from time to time, will be glad to have them turn the faucet on occasionally and keep him posted on what is uppermost in trade matters.





PUBLICATIONS.



The Rathbun Co., of Deseronto, are sending out a handsome catalogue relating to their porous terra cotta for fire-proofing purposes, with illustrations of the material anti numerous public buildings in the erection of which it has been employed.

In the October number of the Engineering Magazine appears a new and very valuable feature in the form of a Review of the Industrial Press," with an index to all the leading articles published currently in the technical journals of the United States and Great Britain. The readers of the Magazine are not only made acquainted with the most important matter appearing each month in the technical Journals, but they can be supplied through the publishers with copies of any articles which they may desire to possess at a moderate cost.



It seems probable that a new City Hall for the City of Quebec will shortly be commenced. The Council has been authorized to issue debentures to the amount of $150,000 for carrying out the project. The site which will probably be chosen is the Jesuit Barracks Square.

CORRESONDENCE.

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]

<article title=" CORRESONDENCE " author="">



A CORRECTION.

<article title=" A CORRECTION " author="">

OWEN SOUND 1st October 1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—We noticed in your September number an item referring to the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., whose works were destroyed by fire, stating that the company is being re-organized under a new name. We wish to correct this statement, as there is no re-organization, or change in the company's name. We will still continue our business under the name of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., Limited. The cement works, which are situated at Shallow Lake, about nine miles west of Owen Sound, are being rebuilt at a large expenditure, and we expect to have our factory in full operation again about the 1st of November. Some additions are being made to our machinery, and when completed we will be able to turn out even a better grade of cement than in the past, which was always considered equal to any imported cements. By making the above correction, you will much oblige.

Yours truly,

THE OWEN SOUND PORTLAND CEMENT CO.





A SUGGESTION FOR THE 0. A. A.



TORONTO, October 6,1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,— Some months ago you mentioned in your paper that the Province of Quebec Association of Architects had opened a reading room and other offices, into which the members could come at any hour of the day or evening, and so on.

Now, what is to hinder the directors of the 0. A. A. from doing the same thing. In Montreal the sister association has far more to contend with than we have here. They have not half the number of members, and they have a serious opposition to face which we have not. At our last convention it was considered advisable to do something "to keep ourselves before the public" and show them that we are an association with a definite aim and object, and not to let ourselves be forgotten or overlooked. Now what did we do? We gave a lecture—I will not comment upon it—but we gave a lecture in public, one and only one—an(l that poorly advertised and worse attended, in a neighborhood not usual for public entertainments. I believe that if we had a fair sized room and had it something like the Montreal arrangement, where we could meet, see each other, discuss common subjects, and have books of reference to study, and so on, and at least a brass plate at the door, the public would know something more about us, and we ourselves could have more interest in our Association. Our management follows a policy of masterly inactivity." It professes to be doing a great work, but from one year to another, except for a sudden momentary ebullition, I maintain it does little if any good beyond educating—if it does that—the future architect.

Yours truly,

CITY MEMBER.



COMPETITIONS.



The Verein zur Beforderung des Gewerbefleisses, of Berlin, is offering a silver medal and a prize of $750 for the best paper giving a chemical and physical analysis of the iron paints mostly employed. Very little definite information is known regarding the application, duration, effect, etc., of these paints, and the papers above invited should contain (1) a description and classification of the paints mostly used, based on a chemical analysis. (2) A statement of the materials and mixtures which form the most suitable paints for application to all kinds of iron. All papers are to be sent in by the I 5th of November next.



According to the permit hook in the office of the City Engineer, there have been erected in London, Ont., since the first of the present year, 117 dwellings. Of these 78 are cottages and 39 more pretentious residences. The brick houses erected in the city since New Year's cost upwards of $118,550. In ten instances no figures are given with the permit. The cost of frame houses during the same period was $22,475, with the prices of four not given. Preparations are under way for the erection of a free library building to cost $12,000, while the Y. M. C. A. will erect a $50,000 structure.

