<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



wide canals running into it, the margins UI all parapeted as if in solid stone. Graceful bridges whose piers and abutments looked very real, statuary of men and animals, not at random, but marking a landing Stage or the approaches to a bridge; broad smooth ways, steps and terracing, exotic plants in urns, accented balustrade and parapets For beauty the surface of the water had aquatic birds, plants, and gondolas for use, noiseless launches driven hither and thither by stored electricity with the speed and ease of fishes. The grand basin was indeed a happy thought. By it you were constrained to take the perspective at a proper distance, with always a beautiful foreground. Such would not have been the case with a stretch of ground dotted by a restless populace, however finely it might have been laid out. Around the basin at magnificent distances rose the buildings you have heard spoken of in detail. Describe the impression made by these, I cannot. I could tell you what you all know, that here the dry bones of our studies in the 'orders" of Greece and Rome were made to live in the most graceful fashion and form a fitting enclosure for the greatest spaces man has ever protected from the elements, and added to this such embellishments of tower and dome as wrought out by later times On this solid basis the buildings rose as one harmonious whole, with no jarring rivalry of men and styles. All this and much more would fail to give you an idea of this scene—a panorama conceived and carried out as genius only can.

If armies in times of peace require their reviews and parades, what a necessary field-day was here for architecture, to keep our ideals pure and high in our utilitarian age! Let me suggest to the authors of the Worlds Fair, the grand basin itself as a symbol of their work. Viewed at the Administration end, all is life and movement—the figures around the gilded dome, the splashing fountains and terraces of water, Father Time and the Amazons on McMonnies Barque, tritons, horses and dolphins, all in a fever of activity. The opposite end, the task accomplished—the golden goddess, well pleased, looks neither to the right nor left, ready to receive the deserved homage of the nations, and behind her the stately peristyle, albeit of no use but to render the precincts of the lovely Court of Honor sacred from sight of aught unseemly, or only seen softened through the vistas of those beautiful columns.

Take it all in all, we few shall look upon it's like again. I would go further and say, that the world in all time has never had such another aggregation of great buildings with the opportunity of disposing them to give grandeur of effect. Whatever may be said else. where of incongruity around the grand basin, where the sway of  the commissioners reigned supreme, let the eye roam as it will there was nothing to startle as out of harmony with the whole. Could this ever be said of any square in Europe, ancient or modern?

What a pity it was only for so brief a season. Perhaps! But I have gazed on Paris, Venice, Rome; I do not expect to see them again the impression of the White City is none the less real because I cannot see it again. Is the glory of its architects to be disparaged because it was built of perishable material? Was not also Athens, Rome, Carthage? The City of Alexandria and its great library perished by fire, so also did the beautiful peristyle.



Mr. Gouinlock:—I have been asked to speak on the materials used in the erection of the World's Fair Buildings, but it unfortunately happens that it is a subject to which I have given little attention, yet though I feel particularly ill-qualified to treat of the question. I am willing to make the attempt, feeling that however dismally I myself may fail in imparting any knowledge of the subject, my efforts will be the means of bringing out a fund of valuable information from others more capable and better posted. That each one of this magnificent cluster of buildings had to be designed to suit exactly the special purpose to which it was to he devoted, and that, therefore, such constructional material had to be selected as would amply sustain any strain it might be called upon to bear, was a matter of course.

That the buildings ought to be individually handsome in appearance was equally a matter of course, and that they should present collectively a grand spectacular effect was evidently aimed at, with what wonderful success no one who did not pay a visit to the Fair can even faintly realize.

But, while the buildings had to be strong and beautiful, it was not desired that they should he lasting. Had they been required for the enjoyment of posterity, no doubt the architects who devised the scheme would have preferred stone and marble, but in this case of course, there was no more need for such expensive material than there would be for a theatrical scene; effect and not durability being the object.

The trusses and frames were therefore erected in such reliable if prosaic materials as iron, steel and wood, apparently elaborate work of engineering rather than architecture, of science, than of art.

But now art with her fairy wand, or rather "staff;" appears, and the labyrinth of dry facts has become an enchanted city of surpassing loveliness to be enjoyed for a day and to be remembered only in dreams. The composition known as "staff,' invented for the express uses of the Paris Exhibition, is composed of plaster and hemp or other fibrous material, and being quite flexible, can be easily secured by nails or other ways, but the extraordinary extent to which it was used in the Fair Buildings, sculpture, etc., and the wonderful success with which it was employed, leads one to regard it as among the possibilities of the future.

Whether it could be used with advantage in works intended to endure is one of the many phases of this question of World's Fair material upon which I am unable to venture an opinion.

Mr. Gambler Bousfield moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Langton for his very interesting talk on the subject of the Wor1d's,

Fair Buildings which had been such as to enable those who were not at the World's Fair to gain such impressions of the huge scale upon which it was carried out as they could not have obtained in any other way. The remarks of the other gentlemen who had taken part in the discussion he thought were also very helpful. It seemed to him a matter of regret that such a group of buildings could not have been maintained permanently, but at the same time there was reason to be thankful that there remained in other places groups of buildings of a more enduring character to serve as exhibitions of the wonders of architecture to the present day. Such were the sites of Athens, ruined as they were, and Rome and London. But although the buildings of the World's Fair were to be removed, the lessons to be learned from them would remain forever.

The President said Mr. Langton and the other gentlemen who had taken part in the discussion were to be thanked for the trouble they had taken and congratulated for the pleasure they had afforded. The best general description of the impressions produced by the Fair that had come under his notice was probably in the grounds of the Fair itself. He had met a gentleman there one clay bubbling over with enthusiasm and almost as full of liquor, who, steadying himself as he gazed on its wonders, burst forth with the exclamation, "Must all this glory vanish ?"

After lunch, which was served in the building, a paper was read by Mr. A. P. Coleman, of the School of Practical Science, on "Rocks," a synopsis of which will appear in our March issue.

Mr. Darling moved that a vote of thanks be accorded to Mr. Coleman for the highly instructive and interesting paper he had just read. The only thing to be regretted about it was, that it did not continue longer.

Mr. Power said he had great pleasure in seconding the motion; he thought every one present had been delighted. He hoped members would not fail to send specimens that might come in their way to Prof. Coleman.

The president said he had much pleasure in conveying the thanks of the Association to Prof. Coleman for the very excellent paper with which he had favored them. It was sometimes said that gratitude consisted in a lively sense of favors to come. That could not be said in this case, however, as it was not the first time they had been entertained by Prof. Coleman.

Mr. Power then read a paper entitled "Some Points on Building," the publication of which is necessarily deferred.

This was followed by a paper from Mr. Simpson, on "The Architect," which will be printed in a later issue.

Mr. Burke said that one text which might be taken from the standpoint of the committee that had prepared the programme was the fact that Mr. Simpson was one of the younger members of the Association who had kindly come to their aid and prepared this very interesting paper. There had always been considerable difficulty in inducing the younger members to take part. He had been assured by Mr. Simpson that he had himself derived very great benefit and pleasure in the course of preparing the paper. Mr. Burke thought the Association owed a debt of gratitude to Mr. Simpson for thus coming forward and assisting to make the programme interesting.

Mr. Gouinlock suggested that the council endeavor to get resident and non-resident architects to send in photographs of what they considered their best work to be exhibited at the next convention and submitted to criticism. He thought the more criticism they were submitted to, especially the younger members, the better.

The President thought the suggestion a good one, and well calculated to have a tendency to improve the tone of architectural design.

Mr. Bousfield added that if anyone had any special work, such as railway stations, that they should send it in, with the reasons for special features designated.

Mr. Darling agreed in thinking the suggestion a good one. He thought that an atmosphere of criticism was wholesome, and the meetings would be more interesting and profitable if there was something of the sort. It had been tried at the Guild. Nobody felt at all the worse for it there, and the Guild as a whole was much the better.

Mr. Helliwell then read a paper on "Current Styles," which was illustrated by magic lantern views given by Mr. Wright, of the School of Practical Science. This paper will also be published in a future issue.

At the conclusion of Mr. Helliwell's paper Mr. Gray said it must be very evident that nothing had lent greater interest or given greater practical value to the convention than the magic lantern exhibitions so kindly given by Mr. Wright. He had therefore much pleasure in moving a very hearty vote of thanks to Mr. Wright for his many courtesies and the beautiful exhibitions of views he had given. (Applause).

The President said the sentiments expressed by Mr. Gray must be shared by everyone present, and he felt great pleasure in tendering the thanks of the Association to Mr. Wright.

A vote of thanks to Mr. Helliwell for his paper was then carried on the motion of Mr. Belcher, seconded by Mr. Edwards.

The Association then proceeded to the election of members of the Council. The gentlemen elected were Mr. Thomas

