<doctype type="text">Detached dwellings, brick or stone, with more elaborate cut stone work, hardwood finish throughout, best plumbing fixtures, hot

	water or steam beating, elaborate mantels, electric wiring, etc.	15c.

school houses, brick, including furnace healing	-	-		61/2c.

Churches, plain brick, furnaces and pews included

Churches, stone, steam heated, including pews and electric wiring

Shops, with dwellings over, plain brick						7c.

Foundries or warehouses with earth floor, one story	-		-		-	3c.

Plain one story warehouse, floored - - -		-		-	-	4c.

Wholesale warehouses, five or six story, brick fronts,

 with cut stone

   dressings, heated, office only finished					61/2c.

Plain brick office buildings, heated					91/2c.

Bank buildings, brick, with cut stone dressing, 2 fronts (on corner)	20c.

Hospitals, brick, steam heating included	81/2c.



Mr. Burke said he was unable to agree with Mr. Gregg's opinion that cubing is not much use and is rather inclined to be incorrect. He thought in practice it was found to be just as correct as the builder's estimate, and that the very difference in the cubing of schools showed it. Probably the reason for the great margin in the different schools was to be found in the builder's estimates, not in the principle of cubing.

Mr. Gregg said he looked at the question as it came before an architect in connection with preliminary sketches. The architect is given an order for a building and wants to give an estimate of the cost. How was the architect to know that in that particular case the builders would go away down below the value?

Mr. Jarvis thought from his experience that Mr. Gregg was pretty nearly right.

Mr. Bousfield thought another column might with advantage be added to what was already given by Mr. Gregg. That was the cost per head for schools or churches. Hospitals, too, were very often tabulated at so much per bed. All these were important helps for getting at the actual cost of a building, because, as Mr. Gregg had said, every building varies considerably. Hospitals must of necessity vary according to their character, whether for general purposes, for children, or for infectious diseases. All were regulated according to certain hygienic rules, some requiring more air space than others, and so on. The information that hospitals cost so much per cubic foot gave very little guide to anyone else unless it was known what class of hospital it was, and the cost per bed as well as per cubic foot. Then, with regard to bow windows, cupolas and that sort of thing, they were very easily overlooked in estimating by the cubic foot. In carrying Out a design such things were frequently added, and they knocked all calculations by the cubic foot on the head, because they are in themselves expensive additions. His experience had been that everything of that kind had to be very carefully calculated.

Mr. Gregg quite agreed with Mr. Bousfield; he thought every oriel window, tower, etc., should be taken. He thought the ideal way of finding the cubic contents was to find out exactly what amount of space taken out of the atmosphere was filled by the building. He had heard a story of the origin of the word Eureka to the following effect: A man who had been seeking to find the cubical contents of his body was taking a bath one day, and noticed that when he entered the bath the water rose to a certain height. It struck him then that if he measured the size of the bath between the point the water had been at before he -got in and the point to which it rose he would be able to arrive at the cubical contents of his own body, and he was so delighted at his discovery that he jumped out of the bath and ran naked through the streets, shouting, "Eureka." (Laughter). If that plan could be adopted with a building it would give it with exactitude; it had to be done somewhat roughly, but the nearer you could get to exactitude the better.

Mr. Townsend disagreed with Mr. Gregg on the same point taken by Mr. Burke. He thought the cubic contents based upon a building of the same sort was far more likely to be right than a builder's estimate. In a case in court not long ago the Judge had taken his cubic contents in preference to the builder's estimate. He thought Mr. Gregg's suggestion that architects should confer together on this point a very valuable one, for if they could agree upon some uniform method in their calculations of cubical contents it would be very helpful.

Mr. Jarvis said the class of work an architect did varied so much that the accurate way to find out what your own work would cost was to refer back. Some architects could get work done cheaper than others, who were regarded by builders as pernickety, and that for that reason charged 30 per cent, more when working under them. Each man therefore was the best judge, as to the cubical contents, of the cost.

Mr. Gregg said that was exactly what he had found in comparing notes with a few architects, and it seemed to him that it would be quite impossible to make a table of the cost of buildings in Toronto based on the prices given by a number of architects, and that was why he had close'1 his paper in the way it did. His object in giving the prices was not as a guide, but merely as a beginning or essay for each class mentioned.

Mr. Gouinlock supposed the prices given by Mr. Gregg would be altered according to the varying prices of the building trades.

Mr. Gregg said his figures were principally based upon the prices of the last three or four years.

Mr. Gouinlock said he had made a calculation of one or two buildings, and he found only a cent per cubic foot on factory buildings and half a cent per cubic foot on residences of difference between Mr. Gregg's figures and the cost of work actually done this year.

Mr. Aylsworth interpreted Mr. Gregg's tables to be more as a suggestion that each architect might utilize in his own way, and as such he thought it very useful, but he did not think it was adapted to be used its a hard and fast rule. It might, as had been suggested, be used in law courts, but he thought that would depend to a very large extent on the amount of confidence the presiding judge had in the architect's ability. He did not understand it was intended as a rule for all to adopt, but each architect in his own practice could make it very useful and valuable.

The President said he thought the members were very much indebted to Mr. Gregg or his paper. There was no question about the value of the method of arriving at an approximation by cubing. He did not think, however, that Mr. Gregg intended the figures he had given to be sent forth for the guidance of architects as an infallible rule. He supposed most of those present used the cubing system more or less, and he thought it was really valuable if used with proper discretion, but it ought to be used with a great deal of care, because it was very easy to get different results from different systems. Each man must work out his own system, and by keeping a record of the cost of his own buildings he would be enabled to get better results. A point to be borne in mind was that the comparative size of a building made a great difference in regard to the cost, especially in the case of buildings which may be divided into large or small rooms, schools for example. There would be a great difference between a school divided into rooms holding say twenty pupils and one divided into rooms holding fifty. The same would apply to dwellings. He thought the members were very much indebted to Mr. Gregg for his valuable contribution. (Hear, Hear.)

The convention adjourned at o'clock p. in., until 10 o'clock on Wednesday morning.



SECOND DAY.

The proceedings of the convention were resumed at to:3o on Wednesday, when Mr. Gambier Bousfield spoke from notes on the subject of "The Construction of Shop Fronts During the Next Decade." A problem was being presented to architects. (an extension of the old question of the architecture of the shop front), which required considerable study and was a field worthy of earnest consideration by the profession. The requirements of trade necessitated in a good many branches the exhibition of wares and stock on every floor. The show window was not now confined to the ground floor, but every floor had to present a show window to the street. All the space that could possibly be spared from the necessities of construction was required for an area of glass on every floor, so that it would seem as if the only construction admissible was that of iron or steel and glass

—the lightest and most economical as regards space. He did not think, judging from many buildings recently constructed in the city, that construction generally tended in the direction of economizing space. Buildings such as the Court House, Athletic Club, the Drill Hall, the Freehold Loan Offices and others were of very heavy construction, and the area occupied by the walls and piers very much limited the floor space within and the window space in the walls. No doubt some buildings required such massive construction; window space was not the absolute requisite that it is in shop fronts; but while we were practising such heavy construction the lighter kinds were likely to be overlooked. So far as existing examples were concerned, and there were many in the city to-day, there seemed to be but two methods of arranging such shop fronts of several stories as he was discussing. The general way was the rectangular method

—upright and horizontal beams—and the other was a semicircular arch thrown over the second story window. The problem that presents itself is how to adapt architecture to these requirements of trade. Formerly this question concerned only the ground floor; now every floor has to be similarly treated. Must we forever follow the liner of the Romanesque or be confined by way of variety to the round arch? Would ii not be worth while to attempt some departure from these, which are becoming stereotyped forms, and in danger of endless repetition? The difficulties in the way of the application of gothic principles were well known; the point he wished to bring out was the necessity, not of adopting any period of architecture as a fixed rule for shop fronts, but of modifying the art to suit the requirements of the times.

Mr. Burke thought the problem presented by Mr. Bousfield's paper was one of the most difficult with which the architect had to contend, the combining of proper architecture with what was demanded by the requirements of modern trade; in fact it seemed to him an almost hopeless task if one desired to follow ancient models. He thought from the business standpoint the Chicago men had solved it as nearly as it was possible to do, having resolved their supports into simply iron stanchious with sufficient masonry to protect the iron from damage in case of fire. His experience with proprietors of retail establishments led him to almost dread any attempted solution of a problem of that kind. He had introduced one little window on Yonge St., which had pleased the proprietor very much, because it afforded the public a view into the basement as well as the ground floor, so that they could see the merchant's wares in the cellar. This

