<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



opportunity to erect year by year complete buildings merely to teach students how it is done. It is different with other professions. 'fake medicine for instance. In that case the student does in the hospital under experienced men, precisely the same work that he will afterwards have to do on his own responsibility. A large part of the students' education must necessarily be obtained in an architects office, and one of the chief practical cal difficulties is to combine the school and the office education in such a space of time as students can be got to give to it; which should precede the other is an open question, on both sides of which much may be said. It appears to me that the true solution of the difficulty is to have the two carried on simultaneously. and I do not think that the difficulties in the way of this are insuperable.

The tendency of the age is to do away with a regular apprenticeship, or to make the period of it too short to thoroughly train a youth. 1-low many of the younger mechanics for instance, have served a regular apprenticeship. or h have thoroughly learned their trades? Seven years used to be thought not too long a time to serve in learning a trade or business. Has the average youth now-a-clays the capacity to learn as much in two or three years as the youth of a former generation could in seven? No! but he is  content with a much more superficial training. Whatever may be the reason for it, I think it is a fact that the sons of our well-to-do people often reach almost to manhood before completing their ordinary school education or beginning the special training for their future business or profession, and that without having taken a university course. The result is that an attempt is made to cram altogether too much into a short time, which is not true education. It neither trains the mind for its future work, nor furnish, s it with a permanent store of knowledge. There will be scope enough for the energies of this association in endeavouring to overcome these difficulties, and so to send forth our young men well fitted for their arduous life work.

The principal architectural event of the year has been the Worlds Fair. It has been an architectural event to a greater degree than any previous international exhibition. The erection of the buildings has excited far more interest in the architectural world than on any former occasion. It was known that a number of the best architects in the country were pitted against each other, not in competition as we are accustomed to see it. but in generous rivalry, under circumstances calculated to make each endeavour to surpass, if possible. his best previous achievements. The plan adopted for securing variety with harmony and a high standard of architectural design. and that in the shortest  possible time, was a  one, and has been amply justified by its success. You all know the story—how a staff of executive officers  was appointed with a construction bureau under one chief who was responsible for the construction of all the buildings—how a number of architects were invited to co-operate with them and each other, and with the landscape gardening artists, in designing the different buildings; how they all met together and determined the general ground plan and the nt-tin features that were to characterize it Court of Honour, lagoons. buildings, terraces, bridges, fountains, statuary—how they decided on the architectural style, and adopted a modulus of height for all the principal buildings; how the work was apportioned amongst them, and each went his own way to study out his design; how they met again in conference, each bringing his sketches with him ; how the work of each was submitted to the friendly criticism of all until the designs were finally approved of; how thy separated again each to work out his design in detail; how, in less than two years from the time when the first spadeful of soil was turned up. some 600 acres of waste and desolate sand marsh were converted into a veritable garden of delight how the artistic dream of the enthusiastic co-workers became a reality, as the colossal buildings rose by the magic of modern skill and science, and the White City stood on the shores of lake Michigan ready to receive all the nations of the world, and to brave their criticism. It was a magnificent feat, and Chicago has good reason to be proud of it. It speaks volumes. too, for the high sense of public duty, anti the self-abnegation of the local artists, that out of the six buildings surrounding the Court of Honour, only one, and that one of the smallest, was reserved for a Chicago architect.

The Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, in 1876, has often been spoken of as the beginning of a new era in American art. The Columbian Exhibition of 1893 wilt be equally far-reaching in its educational influence. It is not too much to say that millions have, for the first time in their lives, been brought face to face with real architecture, and tinder such favourable circumstances that even the dullest imagination could not fail to he impressed. The eyes of many a visitor must have been opened to the true character of the abortions that do duty for architecture in his own particular locality; and recollections of what was seen at the Worlds Fair may prevent the perpetration of at least some others like them in the future. An exhibition of views and a discussion on this subject are to form one of the features of this cony otion. I shall not therefore take up your time by enlarging upon it now.

Another interesting event which has taken place during the year, illustrates the advance which the art of architecture has made on this side of the Atlantic within the last generation. I refer to the presentation by the R. I.

B.	A. of the Royal gold medal to Mr. R. M. Hunt. This is the first instance in which the medal has been awarded to any but a European. When Fergusson wrote his History of Modern Architecture, that of the United States was hardly considered worthy of notice at all—so little, indeed, that even in that voluminous work, his criticism of the architecture of the whole of North America, from New York to Salt Lake City, occupied only si pages of letter-press The history was published in 1862, and the following sentences convey a fair idea of the authors opinion of the state of American architecture at that t me —'The perfection of art in an Americans eyes would be attained by the invention of a sell-acting machine which should produce plans of cities, and designs for Gothic churches or Classic municipal buildings at so much per foot super, and so save till further trouble or thought. Notwithstanding the defects of their system, the Americans have lamely shown a great desire to display their wealth in architectural magnificence. and to rival the of world in this respect; and have produced some very showy buildings, hut certainly not one which can be seriously commend d as an artistic design. and still less any one which can be quoted as a well thought out expression of a mind imbued with architectural taste and knowledge.' Were he writing that history now, one would be curious to see what he would have to say about American architecture. There would of course he criticism some of it no doubt severe, but it would be admitted that there was something worthy of criticism. This great change is chiefly dine to the efforts of a hand of capable and well trained men, of whom Mr. Hunt is one of the foremost. who have for years been stamping their individuality on the architecture of their country. These men are fortunate in that most of them have been  the zenith of their powers am that period in the development of their country when vast opportunities were afforded for the exercise of architectural talent. Several of these men have proved themselves equal to the occasion, and none more conspicuously so than Mr. Hunt. We are all less or more familiar with his works, and perhaps more particularly with that which has brought him most prominently into the eye of the public. the Administrative lion Building at the Chicago exhibition; and there will be no difference of opinion that Mr. Hunt has fairly earned the high honour which has been conferred upon him. It is gratifying to observe from the whole tone of the proceedings at the presentation ceremony, that Mr. Hunt was not regarded as in any sense provincial, but as a man of high artistic attainments who

could meet on equal terms the leading architects 01 tile world and hold his

own amongst them.

It is (if special interest to us to note that while Mr. Hunt is undoubtedly gifted with the natural faculty for design. he has also had unusually good opportunities for cultivating it, and of these he has taken full advantage. It happens not infrequently, especially in this country, that a young man will enter an architect's office, without having previously made any special study of subjects bearing on the profession. and after spending three or four years in the office, will start in practice on his own account, bring made to do so through the influence of unwise friends who can punt work in his way. In such a case the chances are that he will never do anything worth looking at, or worthy of being perpetuated in enduring materials. Mr. Hunt's training was very different, as the result is also. An American by birth, he received first a good general education, partly in his native country and partly in Europe. He then spent some time in the office of an architect in Genoa, and afterwards went to Paris, where be studied under an eminent architect and entered the Ecole des Beaux Arts, where he studied for some years. After leaving it, he traveled for a time, seeing the best architectural examples of Europe, Asia Minor and Egypt. Returning to Paris, he was employed for a time tinder his former master in making the drawings and details for the Pavillion de la Bibliotheque of the Louvre. About ten years were thus spent in study and preparatory work, after which he returned to America, where he firs' spent six months in assisting the late Thomas U. Walter at the Capitol at Washington, after which be went to New York and began practice on his own account. He was by that time about twenty-eight years of age. Unfortunately few young men who have to earn their own living have either the opportunity or the disposition to pursue such a course of training  and preparation as Mr. Hunt did. If it were otherwise, a greater runther might rise to something like the eminence in their profession which he has attained.

It appears strange, and is certainly amenable, that when such men as this are to be found in the country. the United States government should not take advantage of their skill and talent in the erection of their public buildings. These are the last to which an American would call the attention of a foreigner as typical examples of the best architecture of the day. This is not because they are cheap. for they are said to cost aintosi exactly double what the same buildings would cost if erected by private persons.  It is also said that the cost for architectural service amounts also to almost exactly double what the fees would amount to if the work were done by private architects. This is startling but not surprising under the system that has hitherto been followed. One supervising architect, employed at a salary utterly inadequate to procure the services of a first-rate man. has been expected, with the assistance of an army of clerks-—drawing clerks, tracing clerks, computing clerks, and so on—to design and supervise every year buildings costing many millions of dollars, and to see to the expenditure of millions more in repairs. It is physically impossible that any man could be found equal to such a task Chiefly through the efforts of the American Institute of Architects, a bill has now been passed, providing that in future the design and construction of important public buildings will be entrusted to capable architects in private practice. The necessity for the change is illustrated by the condition of the Chicago post  office, which was erected only a few years ago, but which a competent board of experts has now declared to be so unsafe that it is liable to fall at any moment on the heads of ins occupants. It may be mentioned here that the principle which has now been adopted by the United S ales government has to some extent been put in practice by our own Dominion government. And it would no doubt be followed to a still greater extent if the development of the country were such as to require the erection of public buildings at such a rate as to outstrip the capacity of the Department of Public Works.

Another interesting architectural event during the year was the Congress of Architects in connection with the World's Fair, The advisory board consisted of leading architects from the United States, England, France. Germany, Italy. Spain. Hungary. and even Japan. This was the first worlds congress of the kind that aver was held. While the attendance was not, apparently. as large as might have been desired ; it cannot but have had a beneficial effect in broadening the views and enlarging the artistic sympathies of those w-ho took part in it; and the sphere of ins influence will be vastly increased by the publication of the full report cf its proceedings. If it had not been for the existence of architectural societies in all parts of the civilized world, the labor of getting up such a congress and ing the representative men amongst all the scattered tunius of the profession, would have been so enormous, that probably it would never have been attempted.

During last year a committee of the council have considered the advisability of adopting a tariff of fees. Y u will observe that their report does not enter into the general question of the desirability of having a tariff or not. but merely deals with that of the expediency of adopting one at this particular time. Much may be said on both sides of the question. and it would be well for members to take it into their consideration, and look at it from every point of view so that they may be prepared to deal wisely with it when it comes up at a future time. A tariff is generally desired with the idea that it can be used as a lever to keep the rate of fees up to the scale fixed by the tariff, That is one side. The other is that it can also be used to keep the rate down to the tariff scale. No tariff can provide for every contingency. and cases constantly arise in which the tariff apparently applies, but yet in which the scale of remuneration fixed by it would be utterly inadequate. Many cases may arise in which an architect may fairly consider his services worth more than the tariff rates, cases for instance in which he has made a special study of some particular class of buildings, which does not often occur in the course of ordinary practice, say. by way of example, theatres. It is obvious that the see' ices of an expert would be worth more In one building a theatre than those of an architect who had never designed a theatre before; and yet in the face of a bird and fast tariff it might be d difficult for the expert to obtain that higher remuneration to which his greater skill would fairly entitle him. This aspect of the question should at least he taken into consideration, In this connection I  numbered to y 'or attention the report in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for October last of the banquet of the Quebec Association of Architects, on which occasion two of the members of the government were present as guests, and gave entirely opposite advice on this question. The Attorney General congratulated the association on having no tariff, and strongly advised them never to have one; while his confrere, the Commissioner of Public Works, on the other hand, was equally positive that they ought to have one, and promised the assistance of the government in carrying it through.

There is one other matter to which I should like to refer. During the last session of the Ontario Legislature an act was passed entitled "An act to facilitate the enforcement of the just rights of wage earner s and subcontractors." This act is an amendment to the Mechanics' lien Act and contains some provisions which it is necessary for architects to bear in mind in case of having to do with a contractor whose solvency or honesty is doubtful, Under the act as it stood previously to this amendment, every one who did any work about a building, including subcontractors. sub-subcontractors, mechanics. laborers. and supply men of all sorts, had the right of lien on the building amid land on which it stood  unless he signed an agreement to the contrary. Under the amendment no aunt h an agreement is valid. The wage earners' claim to the extent of 30 days wages is given

