<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Association, but we think he cannot have caught the meaning of the article when he denounced it as unfair criticism because, as he said, it condemned the Canadian Building at the World's Fair, without stating the reasons for such condemnation, and questioned (as he said) the capability of a Government architect to design work before he has had an opportunity of showing what he can do. As to the first point, it is only necessary to say that the article was not about the World's Fair Building, but about a proposed Governor General's mansion, and the doubtful capability of the Public Works Department to deal with a problem of that kind. That the Canadian Building at the World's Fair is an acknowledged failure was pointed to as a. case n point to illustrate the inelasticity of the Department. But it was not the intention of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER to rest the argument on this example; indeed we were somewhat surprised to find the Association speaking of the building as if the ability of the Department 10 design were to be tested by this result. In doing so they were—through we may be sure they had not that intention—making a reflection upon the Department more severe than the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER had implied in its note. We had not at all intended to convey the idea that the chief architect's own ability to design was represented by this building. In speaking of the "departmental designer" of the World's Fair pavilion we supposed we were alluding to a subordinate to whom had been entrusted the carrying out of the plan, and in his work we saw an indication of the difficulty which would be experienced by the Department in carrying out

the innumerable and unfamiliar details of a large and ornate domestic building. Here is the point. It is not new, and it is not untrue. Whether or not the genius of Mr. Fuller would enable him to surmount the

4

difficulties of the situation is

properly a question to consider

beforehand, and it was eminently the business of the

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, being as the President said, the only architectural paper in Canada, to raise the question upon the first suggestion that there might be a new residence built for the Governor General. Of Mr. Fuller's talent and ability there is fortunately for the country no question. It has been shown not only in the Parliament Buildings at Ottawa

—which were, however, designed when he was a private architect

—but in the numerous Dominion buildings which have been built under his control all over the country, and of which the

new drill shed now being	finished in Toronto is a striking

and successful example. We may congratulate ourselves upon the certainty that while Mr. Fuller is the Government Architect the public buildings, small MR. EDMU

and large, which are scattered	President Ontario over the country and do so much

to form the public taste and to influence the prevailing manner of building, will have a merit that will make them an influence for good. But, as was said in the editorial note in question, the forte of his office is organization to secure the thorough design and execution of the types of public buildings which are thus constantly multiplied. Each may be a new case but is referable to a type, and so easily and quickly handled by a band of subordinates trained to that end. Domestic work, and particularly an elaborate piece of domestic work such as the Governor General's residence ought to be, would find the tradition and organization of the office unprepared for it, and we think it is most likely not going too far to say that there would be something in the old training to be overcome as well as something new to be added to it, and could the Chief Architect find time to enter into all this personally? A private architect on the other hand—one carefully chosen by competition, of course—would be more able to give his undivided personal attention to the work; and what assistance he employed would be accustomed to dealing with problems similar in kind. That is the case as stated by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. Whether the view taken is right or not may be open to question, but not its fairness nor our right to take it. The article was perhaps too epigrammatic, and so has appeared to have more edge to it than it really had, and has given offence which we regret, but we cannot help fancying that the chief architect himself would be the first to admit that if under the conditions in which a public architect does his work, he succeeds in doing domestic work better than that of the best private architect that can be selected, it will be a great triumph.

MR. EDMUND BURKE.

WE present herewith a portrait of Mr. Edmund Burke, the newly-elected President of the Ontario Association of Architects. Mr. Burke is well qualified to fill this important office with credit to himself and the Association. As a member of the Council for several years, he manifested the deepest interest in the welfare of the Association and performed such valuable service in its behalf as entitle him to the honor which has now been conferred upon him.

Mr. Burke, who is now in middle life, is a native of the Emerald Isle, but has spent the greater part of his life in Toronto, receiving his education at the public schools and Upper Canada College, in that city. On leaving college he entered upon the study of architecture in the office of Messrs. Gundry & Langley, and subsequently, upon the death of Mr. Gundry, formed a partnership with Mr. Langley, which continued until August, 1892, when he assumed the business of the late W. G. Storm. Among the notable buildings with the designing of which his name stands identified, are: McMaster University, Jarvis Street Baptist Church, Trinity Methodist Church, Warner Road Baptist Church, the warehouse of Messrs. John Macdonald & Co., Union Loan and Building and Loan office buildings, and the residence of Messrs. Robt. Simpson, Henry Darling and D. E. Thomson.

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="Burke, Edmund">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The annual examinations of	the Association will be held at the School of Practical Science, Toronto, on Tuesday, March 6th, and will continue until Saturday, March 10th.

There will be a public Association lecture at the School of Practical Science on the evening of Thursday, March 8th, beginning at 8.30. The lecturer will be Mr. Grant Helliwell and the subject "Architectural Styles in Use To-day." The lecture will be illustrated by means of the electric light magic lantern of the School of Practical Science, under the management of Mr. Wright. The public are invited to be present.



HAM I LTON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHI

TECT AND BUILDER.)

The inaugural meeting of the Arts and Crafts Association of Hamilton, Ont., was held in the Art School on the 17th ultimo. About 50 active working members were present. Mr.

S.	John Ireland, principal of the Hamilton Art School, was elected president. The three vice-presidents are each chairman of sub sections

7:.

	Mr. Stark Jordan, "Fine Arts	Mr.

	John S. Gordon, Craftsmen ;" Mr.

	W. A. Edwards. "Architecture,' Miss

	Baine, Sec. -Treas., with others form

	a Council. A strong Probation Com-

	mittee is appointed, who will decide

	what to admit or reject from entering

	the exhibitions; they will also superin-

	tend the arrangement of exhibits.

 BURKE,	 The aims and objects of the society

Association of Architects,	are —

(a)	To facilitate the exhibiting of

fine art work, architecture and handicraft, done by members of the Association, who shall be residents in or natives of Hamilton or its immediate vicinity, and thereby cultivate the public taste for fine art and the products of the crafts which depend on some display of artistic skill to become saleable.

(b)	To bring selections of the best works of artists, architects and craftsmen, prominently before the public notice so that some of such works at least may find purchasers, which, if left to individual enterprise, would remain unsold.

(c)	To bring the works of young artists and craftsmen before the notice of those requiring skilled labor.

(d)	To encourage individual effort among art workers to produce better work, by associating the name of every worker with his or her work, particularly with factory-produced articles which bear the direct impress of the individual thought, skill, or taste of one or more workers, as well as the name of the firm producing such articles.

(e)	To admit work of other artists, not resident in Hamilton, as long as there is space for the same without overcrowding local work; this is intended to prevent, somewhat, the members of the Association from becoming narrow minded or purely local in their ideas. No distinction will be made between so-called professionals and amateurs.

(f)	To purchase works of art with any profits derived from exhibitions, after all expenses incurred in holding such are paid, the work so purchased to form a nucleus of a collection for a public art gallery, such purchases to be located temporarily by the council of this association.

(g)	To hold exhibitions of Hamilton work in other places in Ontario, where such exhibitions are deemed advisable by at least two-thirds of the members of the association.

(h)	To further cultivate artistic taste, patrons will be enrolled as well as working members by paying $5 per annum or $25 for a life patronage, the money so obtained to be expended in the purchase of works of art to form the nucleus of an art gallery. [he first exhibition will be held early in May next.



The partnership existing between Messrs. W. B. Malcolm, of Toronto, and E. Bowler, of St. Johns, Que., under the name of the Dominion Sanitary Pottery Co., has been renewed.

