<doctype type="text">	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

priority over any other claims, and any device adopted by owner or contractor in order to defeat that priority is declared to be null and void. The owner, however, is entitled under the act to retain for 30 days after the completion of the work, or delivery of the materials, an amount equal to 15% of the value when it is less than $1,000, 121/2% when front $1,000 to
$5 000, and xo% when over $5,000. He is also entitled to pay any just claims for wages or materials, and to charge the amounts to the contractor, provided he can pay the claim without reducing the amount of the drawback below the amount of the above named percentage. but he must notify the contractor of such payment within 3 days. Further, he is entitled to refuse payment to a contractor of any amount exceeding $100 unless the contractor leaves with him an affidavit or statutory declaration that all wages have been paid up to and including the 14th day previously. If the owner makes any payment without getting such an affidavit, he does so at his own risk, and is still liable for unpaid wages. In the event of a contractor failing to complete his contract, the drawback cannot be used to complete the work, so long as any wages are unpaid. Strictly speaking, an architect is not safe under this act in giving a certificate for $100 or upwards at any time without demanding from the contractor such an affidavit as has been described. Practically it would be impossible to carry on business on these terms, because, notwithstanding that it is the law, any respectable contractor would consider himself insulted if asked to bring such an affidavit whenever he came for a certificate. The law throws the responsibility on the owner, but as be may know nothing whatever either about the law in the matter or the financial standing of the contractor, he will naturally look to his architect to protect him in such a case. The moral therefore is, to have if possible nothing to do with doubtful contractors, but if one should happen to get involved with any such, then not to be too delicate to demand the necessary affidavit. If this course were constantly pursued by all architects, their offices would soon be relieved from the unwelcome presence of the shady contractor-the man who from education and habit is incapable of doing good honest work, but whom a short sighted owner will sometimes insist should get a chance to tender, with the result that a few dollars are saved in the amount of the contract, and hundreds perhaps lost in the quality of the work. It is simply impossible with any amount of supervision to get the same standard of workmanship from a man whose aim is constantly to increase his profits by scamping his work, as from a man who honestly tries to live tip to his agreement. or who at least values his reputation and future business connection more than the immediate gain or a few dollars. This is a point which it is difficult to get some owners to recognize. and if this act helps to open the eyes of such to the risks they run in insisting on the employment or doubtful contractors, it will certainly save many an architect from much unnecessary worry and trouble, whether or not it benefits the class in whose interests it has been framed. I may mention incidentally that under this act an architect has also the right of lien, but curiously enough. some of the United States courts have held that he only has that right if he supervised the erection of the building as well as prepares the plans and specifications.
Now, gentlemen. I shall not detain you longer from the business of the Convention, which is the one occasion in each year on which we can meet together to exchange views and opinions, and stimulate each other to do what in us lies to raise the standard of architectural practice in this province. It is a matter for regret that every member of the Association cannot be present with us. I am sure, however, that those who are absent regret this as much as we who are present do. I trust that the fifth year of the Incorporated Association will see us growing in unanimity and strength, and so prove that the labor which has been expended in organizing and building it up will not have been spent in vain.
The conclusion of the address was received with loud and prolonged applause.
The Treasurer, Mr. Edmund Burke, then read his report as follows
THE TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE Ontario ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.
<article title=" THE TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE Ontario ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">
	1893.	Dr.
Jan.	To balance from t892	$2,285	35
	  Cheque from Registrar, collections, fees, prior to
	     February 2nd, t893	225	25
	  Interest on Registrar's bank deposit	4	02
	  Library fines	1	75
	  Members' fees after February 2nd	346	oo
	  Students' registration fees	42	00
	  Students' examination fees	23	oo
	  Students' examination papers sold		50
	  Transfer student's articles	1	00
	  Weher Printing Co., refund, over pay	4	00
Dec. 31	  Bank interest	8o	65
	$3,013 52
		To balance forward to 1894  	$1,930 50
	1893.	Cr.
By W. A. Langton, one year's salary as Librarian	$ 100 00
	Registrar	200 00
	disbursements	71 71
	             refund, overcheque	25	00
	R. M. Williams. engrossing minutes	6	50
	Nelson R. Butcher, typewriting, re legislation	8	65
	W. G. McWilliams, fees	50	00
	Curry & Gunther, solicitors' fees '	64	68
	Travelling and hotel expenses, members of Council	91	25
	Examiners' fees	150	00
	W. J. Graham, attendant at Examination Hall	10	co
	Webber Printing Co	20	00
	Curry Bros., printing examination papers	25	00
	          list of members	17	00
	          by-laws	28	00
	C.	H. Mortimer, printing account, April, 1892, to July, 1893	109	25
		          pamphlets re stone tests	57	00
		           circular re annual fees	1	35
		          subscription CANADIAN ARCHITECT for 
		             English architectural societies	7	50
	Hart & Riddell, stationery		20	65
	Brown Brothers, binding	1	25
	Refund portion of fee to non-practising member	3	00
	St. Lawrence Foundry, for columns for testing	I2	34
	Reid & Co., for timbers for testing	2	89
		$1,083 02
	Balance on hand	1,930 50
	$3,013 62

EDMUND BURKE,
Treasurer 0. A. A.
We have examined the h00ks, vouchers, etc., 01 the Association, and certify that the above is a correct statement thereof.
	(Signed)	HENRY LANGLEY Auditors.
		JOHN GEMMELL j
NOTE- The income for 1892, excluding bank interest, was. .. $1,199 to
	   And the expenditure	1,152	81
	The income for 1893, excluding bank interest, was	643	50
	   And the expenditure	1,083	02

On motion by Mr. Burke, seconded by Mc. Gray, the report of the Treasurer was adopted.
The Registrar and Librarian, Mr. W. A. Langton, then read
the following report
REPORT (IF THE REGISTRAR AND LIBRARIAN AT THE ANNUAL MEETING
ON JANUARY 16TH, 1894.

Members.
The	following is the state of the roll of membership of the Association -Membership on January 1st, 1893-
	Resident members	62
	Non-resident members	71
	Total	133

Registrations during 1893-
	Resident members	3
	Non-resident members	3
	Total	6
	Membership on January 1st, 1894	139

Of these there were-
	In good standing	50
Honorary                         
In arrears for 1893    .         
and 1892          
	and 1891....	9
	'39
Students.
There are 87 students on the list. Of these many have gone away for study or in search of work. Some are I think engaged in other pursuits, but I have received no communication from them renouncing their connection with the Association.
Classified according to the examination required from them the roll of students is subdivided thus
For first intermediate examination	13
	second intermediate examination	26
	final examination	48
	87
At the examinations of this year there were 19 candidates, classified as follows
First intermediate examination              
	Second intermediate examination	8
	Final examination	6
	'9
Of these the following members passed -
First intermediate examination	2
Second intermediate examination	3
Final examination	2
	7
The following were conditioned -
	First intermediate	I
Second intermediate                       
	Final examination	2
	4
These four came up for examination in September, and all passed but one of the candidates for the final examination. Thus, of the 19 candidates for examination in this year 10 have passed, and of these there are three thus made eligible for registration as members of the Association.
The register for students seeking employment, which was opened at the office of the Registrar in 1892, has been little used by students. Architects on the other hand have often made enquiries about draughtsmen, and some of the students who did give their names to the Registrar have thus procured employment.
Proceedings of the Council.
Besides the meeting on the day after convention for the purpose or electing officers and dealing with matters referred by the convention to the Council, the Council met on May 2nd to consider the report of the examiners, and on June 1st, to consider the report of the legislation committee.
Matters dealt with at these meetings, other than administrative details, were as follows
Copies of the Conditions of Competition approved by the convention of 1892 were ordered to be printed, and five copies sent to each member.
The fees for 1893 were fixed, as desired by the convention, according to a  graded schedule based upon the plan defined in the president's address at the convention. This schedule was afterwards reduced as stated below.
The following gentlemen were appointed examiners for 1893. and after the examinations were me appointed for 1894: Messrs. C. H. C. Wright, S. G. Curry, S. H. Townsend, R. W. Gambier-Bousfield, F. Darling and E. Burke.
As Mr. F. J. Rastrick proposed to retire from the Association upon the completion of his period of service as a member of the Council, it was thought proper to ask him to become an honorary member of the Association.
The principal work of the Council was the endeavor to procure an amendment to the Act of Incorporation such as would make the title Architect the exclusive right of members of the Association in place of the title Registered Architect. The Toronto members of the Council had been appointed by the Council as a committee to procure legislation amending the Act, and were called the Legislation Committee. At the meeting of the Council on Feb. 9th, the following non-resident members were added to the legislation committee: Messrs. Jas. Adams, F. J. Alexander, Jas. Balfour, F. Bartlett, A. Bell, Jos. Connolly, T. Cuthbertson, John Day, J. C. Forster, Fred. Henry, John Kay, Thos. Kennedy, J. W. Kenney. J. Z. Long, J. A. May. cock, A. A. Post, Jos. Powell, Jos. W. Power, F. J. Rastrick, W. Stewart, A. White and J. L. Wilson. By letter a d circular the president and local members of the legislation committee communicated with the non-resident

