<doctype type="text">

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.



NOTICE TO STUDENTS.

<article title=" NOTICE TO STUDENTS " author="">

To students in the employ of architects who are subscribers to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER the MONTHLY EDITION of this journal will be delivered postage free for ONE DLOAR per year. This offer does not apply to draughtsmen whose term of studentship has expired.

The order for subscription must be accompanied by one dollar and the certificate of the architect in whose office the student is employed. This offer is made with the object of enabling every student to have in his own possession and accessible when required the information supplied through this and other Departments, and to enter our competitions.



<article title=" "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION " author="">

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION.

The publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI BUILDER invites competitive designs for a Drug Store, situated at the corner of a street, to cost not more than $3,000. in this competition a new departure will be made in awarding the premiums. A selection will be made of six or eight designs, which will be published together and all students employed in the offices of architects in Canada will be invited to vote on them, filling up a form for this purpose which will be supplied in our advertisement pages. Every vote must be accompanied by a short written reason for the choice made, and each voter must give the name of his employer. The design receiving the highest number of votes, with good and practical reasons, will be awarded the first premium, and so on.

This competition is restricted to students who are at present subscribers to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, or who shall become subscribers previous to the close of this competition, in accordance with the notice printed above regarding special subscription price to students.

The store is to be placed at the sunny corner of the street, built on the street lines and having a frontage of 22 feet. The Drug Store itself is to be 25 feet deep. Over the store is to be provided a residence of two stories and attic for the druggist.

Drawings are required of a front elevation to 1/4" scale and a plan of the store to a reduced scale, drawn below the elevation. Each competitor must give a short, concise description of his design, and he is left free to include any conveniences of arrangement that may suggest themselves as suitable for the purpose of the building. The first considerations should be convenience and architectural effect.

The first premium will be $15.00, and the second $5, the third, one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

Drawings must be made on sheets of heavy white paper or bristol board 7x14 inches in size (the seven inches being the bottom of the sheet), and must be sufficiently coarse to allow of their being reduced to one half the above size. Drawings must be made in firm strong lines with /cn and black ink. No color or brush work will be allowed. Each drawing must be marked with the nom de plume of its author, and the author's name and full address enclosed in a sealed envelope bearing the nom de plume outside, must be sent in with the drawing.

Drawings must reach the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, 107 Confederation Life Building, Toronto, not later than the 7th day of March, 1894.

All designs will be returned to the authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

Students entering this competition must be careful to comply with all of the above conditions.

All practising architects are debarred from this competition.



<article title=" TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB" author="">

TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB.

WE have received through Mr. Fred. P. Kelley, who was the Secretary of the Toronto Architectural Club, a letter from the Tsquare Club of Philadelphia, which is endeavoring to form a permanent organization for the purpose of holding annually or as often as possible, exhibitions of the work of the various architectural sketch clubs in America.

Accompanying the letter is a copy of a suggested constitution for the proposed organization, the government of which is to be vested in a Board of Representatives composed of one member from each club in good standing. An executive committee selected by the Board, is to have full power to direct the entire work, interests, and all legislation governing the exhibitions, not provided for by the constitution. Any architectural sketch club to be eligible to membership on payment of $10.00, and membership to be maintained by payment of a pro rata tax of 25 cents on its membership. The drawings for the exhibitions to include those receiving special mention at the individual club competitions, and can be exhibited but once. The drawings to be judged by a jury consisting of an architect, artist and sculptor, who are to be non-members, and one gold and one silver medal to be awarded to the clubs whose work shall be adjudged

to be the best and second best respectively. I The writer of the letter requests the co-operation of the Toronto Club for the carrying out of the scheme.

In forwarding to us the letter Mr. Kelley suggests that we should bring it before the eyes of those interested, in the hope of reviving interest in Architectural Club matters in Toronto, in view of the fact that not a few of the former members of the Club who were away in the United States and England, have returned, and the possibility that they might be induced to renew their interest in the Club, and assist in its re-organization. We very gladly give the matter publicity, in the hope that this result may follow.





INTERCOMMUNICATION COLUMN.



This column is intended to afford a means of correspondence for students, builders, and all our readers desiring information they cannot otherwise obtain. Questions for which an immediate reply is required should be marked "Urgent.' Names and addresses of correspondents must be sent with their communications, but these may be signed with initials or otherwise for publication.





QUESTIONS.



[I.] Will some reader kindly tell me in what book I can find good examples of Elizabethan details? A. C. B.

[2.] Opinions seem to vary as to the advisebility of constructing hollow walls for houses. I should be glad of any authentic information on the subject? Yours, H. W.



[3.1 I am very glad to hear of the proposed Intercommunication Column. It will prove an immense boon to many of us. I have a question to ask which will be of interest to a number of students. I want an unbiassed opinion about going up for the 0. A. A. examinations. I do not want to go up for them unless it is absolutely necessary to pass them before I can set up for myself in the province. Kindly let me have an answer at once, as I believe the next examinations are coming off soon.

STUDENT X.



[a.] As I understand your Intercommunication Column is open to builders as well as all your other readers, I should like to ask a question. The architect of a building just finished has given me a final certificate for my work on it. The owner says he intends to hold the certificate for six months at least to ascertain the soundness of the work. The contract does not state definitely anything about the time for final payment. I want the money, and don't see why I should wait, as the architect has passed it. Has the owner any right to keep me waiting ?

BUILDER.



[s.] I am serving under a written agreement with an architect, which is supposed to bind me to him for three years, during which time I Ret no pay. We had a good deal of work for the first year but have had none for the last three months, and I have nothing to do but kick my heels. As the prospect for the spring does not look promising I have asked him to let me go, that I may go somewhere where I shall see more work, for I am anxious to learn, but he says he will not free me at present. If necessary can I get free by invoking the aid of the law?—QUEBECER.



[6] I should like to get the opinion of fellow students in country places as to forming a club, of say a dozen members, who would unite for the purpose of subscribing to about four leading architectural papers to be circulated among them. I would make the following suggestions A dozen of us might pay enough for four papers. Someone would act as secretary and buy the papers and start them out to four members. Each member keep each paper three days and send it on; the last man to return it to the secretary, who would be allowed to keep the papers as payment for his services, or they might be sold and the price realized go towards reducing the expenses for the next year.—G.



[7.] Can any one tell me of a way to mount tracings on drawing paper, so that they can be rolled up without injury ?~—JACK.

[8.] What is the simplest way of telling good cement from bad? In the country we are very much in the power of the builders in this respect, and I have sometimes been badly  treated.—ARCH ITECT.



REPLIES.



[3.] STUDENT X.—The probability is that by the time you want to set up for yourself the present 0. A. A. Act will have been so amended that it will be necessary for you to pass the examinations and you would very much regret, then, not having passed. Under any circumstances you would never regret having been examined. An examination is an excellent goal towards which studies may be directed, and it enables a student to ascertain how much he really knows. We would strongly advise you not to lose the opportunity that is now presented.— ED. "INT. COL."

[2.] In reply to "H. XV." I have made it a practice, whenever the expenses would admit of hollow walls, to use them, and though I have often heard objections made to their use, I have never found any disadvantage arise from their use in my work.

—N. G. M.

[6.] The suggestion by "G" is a good one, and we would commend it to his fellow students. We shall be glad to help in the formation of such "Club" if we hear from others about it,

—ED." INT. COL."

