<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



Paull had said, when a building was erected It became in a certain sense public property. It abstracted from the public a certain amount of the free light of heaven, and that being so it should justify its existence by being as beautiful as possible.

He really did not think any exception could be taken to any of the comments that had been made that morning on any of the buildings referred to. it was very different with the so-called criticism which had yesterday been rebuked by Mr. Billings, which lie did not think was criticism, but rather a sneer, lie thought it was not well to be too sensitive about this matter of criticism where the criticism was fair and honest.



Mr. Gregg acknowledged his willingness to accept the ruling of the Chair, but pointed out that in the article referred to by Mr. Billings there was a distinction drawn, and he understood that under the ruling if the Association desired to spend half an hour in criticizing the Canadian Building at the World's Fair they were quite free to do so.



The President replied that certainly if any member had any suggestion to make for the improvement of the Canadian or any other World's Fair building there was no objection. In regard to the question directly under discussion, it was certainly one of the most suggestive that could be brought before the Convention and though an old problem, there were very few instances of its having been satisfactorily solved. I He thought it might be laid down as an axiom that everything an architect handled should be treated architecturally. Unfortunately that had not always been recognized, but if ever architecture was to become again a living art it must be recognized. The difficulty in the past had been that generally shop fronts had been confined to the ground floor only, all the rest of the building being devoted to entirely different purposes, and treated in an entirely different manner. He remembered a building in Glasgow of which the ground floor front was plate glass with, for the period at which it was built, very slight supports. and the whole upper portion in the Scottish Baronial style, of a most massive character, with projecting gables, corbels and turrets, and everything calculated to give the upper part a very heavy appearance. Had it been cut off at the first story, or viewed from a window on the opposite side of the street in such a way that the lower floor was not seen, it might have been a thoroughly satisfactory design, but as it existed it was certainly antagonistic to all ideas of architectural propriety. He thought the most satisfactory treatment for these mixed buildings, where the fronts were narrow, was that pointed out by Mr. Burke, the large semicircular arch. It satisfied the eye, hut the weak point was the apparent want of sufficient abutments. Where there were buildings on each side, that was not. so noticeable. If it was desired to follow ancient morals, plenty could be found in Italy. In the case of the Scaligeri tombs at Verona everybody could see that if it were not for the iron rods which keep the arches from spreading, they would all tumble to pieces, yet even Ruskin does not object to them. So that when the end piers were made to look as solid in design and material as possible, and tire tie rod rather accentuated than concealed, it did not appear to be an objectionable method of construction. Another treatment he hurl observed was the making of the front like a frame, the support on each side carried tip and the whole of the inside filled up with light iron and glass. He had seen some instances of that treatment which he thought were quite successful. Architects were very often denounced for not producing a new style, and if a new style was to be introduced he thought this problem was one of the fields in which it could he worked out A few years ago the system had been adopted of building fronts entirely of iron. There were two objections to that. One was that the repetition of the parts necessary to secure cheapness became monotonous, and there was also always difficulty in attaining really artistic effects in such an intractable material as cast iron. The other objection was the danger in the event of fire, so lie thought the front of the future would be on what might be called the American system, of steel or iron construction with the material encased in terra cotta or other non-combustible material. Instead of regarding it as a disadvantage that merchants at the present time called for plate glass in all their fronts, he thought it quite an advantage, because it removed the difficulty of having to provide much light below and less light above.

Mr. Langton, referring to the question which had been raised in regard to this criticism in the Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER said the question had been cropping up at intervals, and he thought it was a very unfortunate thing. It was a matter in regard to which he would not say anything, but it had been said that the Association repudiated any criticism such as has been referred to as appearing in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and that seemed to imply that that journal was to be muzzled because it was the organ of the Association. He did not speak with regard to the particular criticism complained of at all, and he had no doubt Mr. Mortimer would take in good part any criticism of that paragraph on the part of the Convention. But to say that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER should never criticize any work done by members of the Association, seemed to him to he placing a muzzle upon the utterances of that paper in a way which was unworthy of the Association. The journal in question was the organ of the Association only in  the sense that their announcements were published in it, and also with regard to any question of policy, such as that of making only members of the Association entitled to term themselves

"architects," it was to be expected that the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER should concur. But if it should go out in the report that the fact that the paper was the organ of the Association had the effect of muzzling it entirely, and restraining it from indulging in any criticism of the work of members of the Association, he thought the result could not be one that was desirable. As to Mr. Fuller, he did not think there was an architect in the Association or in Canada who had not the greatest respect for his design, whatever he might think of the Canadian World's Fair Building. It was to be remembered that Mr. Fuller's reputation was riot one that was yet to be achieved. Nothing that could be said could have the slightest effect upon his reputation, which was already established unit by his past work only, but by work in progress at the present time, such, for instance, as the Toronto Armory Building, which all would acknowledge was a very fine piece of work. It was not a  question of Mr. Fuller's reputation, but of a particular building. In the course of collecting material for the lecture upon the Worlds Fair Buildings which lie was about to deliver, he had come across in an article by Mr. Van Brunt, a passage in which the United States Building at the World's Fair was criticized in very much the same terms as had been used in regard to the Canadian Building. The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER had said, as lie understood it, that the function of the department to which Mr. Fuller belonged was to make designs for public buildings arid carry them out in great quantity, and that the carrying out of such buildings as the World's Fair Building or a residence for the Governor-General was an innovation on their line of work, and an interruption to its regular course. He thought that was a fair enough view to take.

The President said the question was very simple. The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER or any individual has a perfect right to criticize fairly any building. He held that the article complained of was not fair criticism, and lie thought the majority of those in the Convention would agree with him, but none of them would object to fair criticism from any quarter.

Mr. Power, while agreeing with the President that the paragraph complained of was not fair criticism, thought it would he a great pity to say anything which would convey to the editor

of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND  BUILDER the idea that it was not at perfect liberty to criticize the work of members of the Association.

Mr. Billings said he had felt it his duty to call attention to the way in which the paper in question was entered, and he did not think he had said anything not justified by the facts. Theme was no desire to muzzle the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. What he had said was independent of anyone else. He felt quite sure Mr. Fuller would be quite willing to receive criticism at the hands of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER or anybody else, so long as it was fair criticism.

Mr. Paull said lie had seen very little criticism in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER which he thought could be taken objection to, and in support of Mr. Mortimer he might say that two of the most prominent buildings in England had been the subject of very severe criticism, the Exhibition Building and the Houses of Parliament.

Mr. Gouinlock was in accord with the views expressed of the unfairness of the article complained of, and had thought at the tune it was published that it was most severe. I-Ic was very glad Mr. Billings had brought it before the Convention.

Mr. Townsend proposed to offer a resolution to the following effect, "That while this meeting condemns anything in the shape of unjust or venemous criticism, it is the policy of the Association to court fair criticism upon any and all architectural work."

Mr. Gregg took a point of order; the question had been ruled on in most explicit terms, and therefore the question was settled, and there was no necessity to pass any resolution.

The President said Mr. Gregg had said practically what he was about to say himself. (Applause.) He did not think that under the circumstances any motion on the subject was in order.

Mr. Townsend said his only object in offering the resolution was to close the discussion, and he had much pleasure in withdrawing it.

Mr. Wright, of the School of Practical Science, then exhibited to the Convention, by the aid of the fine electric light lantern used in the School, a collection of views of the World's Fair buildings kindly loaned by Mr. A. W. Croil for the purpose. . The plan of the grounds and of the various buildings was explained by Mr. Langton as the views were exhibited.

At the conclusion of Mr. Langton's exhibition of views of the World's Fair Buildings the following discussion took place:

Mr. Burke:—The ground has been so fully covered by Mr. Langton that I haven't very much to say. I suppose one of the points of this exhibition is that it is the first exhibition which has been so rich in architectural art—a successful effort to produce a complete architectural symposium on a large scale. The buildings at other exhibitions were mainly buildings merely for the purpose of housing the exhibits, and of course, as Mr. Langton had already said, one of the reasons of the success of the

