<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



members so as to secure concerted action. The committee in Toronto held 11 meetings and were assisted by the solicitor of the Association and the solicitor who had successfully assisted the Provincial Land Surveyors in procuring legislation in the previous year. The bill of amendment was finally withdrawn on May 16th by the advice of its principal supporters in the House. A meeting of the Council was called on June 1st, and the action of the committee in withdrawing the bill was endorsed by the Council.

It was decided at this meeting to keep the cost of the working of the Association as low as possible and to reduce the rate of fees until the time when the question of legislation could be brought up again.

A second schedule of fees was drafted and sent out on June 13th along with the President's circular letter dated June 6th, in which was given an account of the work of the legislation committee and the decision of the Council with regard to fees.

It was intended to introduce, when the Bill amending the Act was in committee, an amendment to the Act providing for the election of thc President of the Association by the convention, as desired by the convention of 1893. Failure to accomplish this amendment was involved in the withdrawal of the Hill.

The Library.

The number of loans made from the library during 1893 has been 152, or five less than in 1892. Of the borrowers 41 were architects and 111 students.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

W.	A. LANGTON,

Registrar and Librarian. <article title=" Registrar and Librarian " author="Langton, W. A.">

The Registrar, after reading his report, said that at the last convention instructions had been given the Council to push the question of having customs dues collected properly upon plans coming in from foreign countries. In pursuance of that instruction the Toronto members of the Council had been directed to confer with the Manufacturers' Association (a deputation of which body had been of assistance at Ottawa before on a similar occasion and had promised assistance again), as to organizing another deputation to go to Ottawa. The Council had sought and secured an appointment with that Association, but the proposed meeting was adjourned for the purpose of attending the funeral of the late W. H. Howland. Since then it had not been possible to have another meeting, and the matter was consequently referred to the new Council. Another question was the fixing of a tariff of fees, alluded to by the President, which was brought up in the Council. A committee consisting of the President and Messrs. Townsend and Darling had considered the question and presented a report at the Council meeting that morning, which might be appended to the Registrar's report. The following is the report as read —The committee appointed to consider the advisability of adopting a

tariff of fees," beg to report that, having given the subject careful consideration, they are of opinion that at the present time—when the Association has been working for and is looking forward to an important amendment to the Act of Incorporation—it would be inexpedient to do anything that might have a tendency to increase the difficulties in the way of obtaining that amendment. There is no doubt that the principal difficulty in the way of obtaining the desired amendment is the feeling prevailing amongst a large number of members of the Legislative Assembly that the Association is of the nature of a Trades Union, and as the ultimate object of these organizations is almost invariably the increase of the rate of wages, your committee are satisfied that if the Association were at this time to adopt a tariff, it would be misinterpreted as a move in the same direction. If we had once obtained the amendment to the Act for which we are seeking, the question would naturally come up as a logical consequence of the enlarged powers which that amendment would confer, and could then be dealt with effectively without injury to the Association. In the meantime, there is no need for any uncertainty as to what is a fair scale of charges, because the tariffs which have been adopted by almost all associations of architects in this country and in Europe are practically identical, and have again and again beer recognized by courts of law as proper and reasonable and as a fair basis on which to settle disputed accounts. Any tariff which we might adopt would undoubtedly be similar in its provisions, as it would be useless to attempt to obtain sanction to a tariff higher than that of all similar bodies, and assuredly the members of this Association would not desire that it should be lower, The scale of charges thus fixed is accessible to all architects and can be as readily appealed to as if formally adopted by the Association. The Architectural Guild of Toronto some time ago prepared and adopted a tariff on the above basis, and copies of it can be procured by any member of the Association on payment of a nominal charge. An excellent plan is for individual members or firms to have the scale of charges printed in some convenient form, as for instance on a corner of their letter paper, where clients could not fail to see it, or elsewhere as they might deem expedient. In conclusion, your committee desire to remind the members that any tariff which the Association may adopt must be sanctioned by the Government, and it will be necessary to show that the proposed tariff is in harmony with the custom and the precedent of our ordinary practice. It is therefore apparent that in the meantime it is of the utmost consequence that all members of the Association should conform their practice to the universally recognized existing tariff.

S.	H. TOWNSEND.

FRANK DARLING.

D.	B. DICK.

On motion by Mr. Townsend, seconded by Mr. Gouinlock, the report of the Registrar was received and adopted.

DISCUSSION.

Mr. Gambier Bousfield asked if something could not be done by the Association to bring and keep itself more prominently before the public from year to year? Between the annual meetings the public heard nothing of he Association, He would suggest occasional meetings at which papers could be read, and reports of which would appear in the press, and in that way the public would not be allowed to lose sight of the fact that such a body was in existence working for the advantage of the community in general.

Mr. Aylsworth said he could not remember having seen during the year any reference to the Association in the public press, but he had observed a reference to the Architects' Guild of Toronto. That body, he believed, had been asked to select

representatives on the Technical School Board. He had no doubt the members of the Guild—of which he was not himself a member—had the interests of the Association at heart, and he thought if a similar case occurred again, it would help the Association if the Guild would turn over to it a matter of that kind, by which means the Association would be brought into prominence and become better known to the public. The Guild had been long in existence and had a handier name, and he had the impression that in the minds of the public throughout the province it was more prominent than the Association. If such a case should arise during the year it was in the power of the Guild to do something for the Association in that way.

Mr. Gregg thought Mr. Bousfield's suggestion was in line with his own of a year ago, regarding the formation of chapters or branches of the Association. He thought the lack of such a branch in Toronto was apparent, and that such a matter as that regarding the appointment of representatives to the Technical School Board, referred to by :Mr. Aylsworth, should go before that branch, as the Association as a whole was probably a better body to appoint those representatives than the Guild.

The President said that so far as he could recollect the matter of the appointment of the representatives on the Technical School Board was the only instance for a number of years in which the Guild had been brought before public notice, and he thought that had been allowed to remain in the Guild's hands to avoid making any change. It had been the policy of the Guild not to interfere with matters that were within the province of the Association. He thought he could safely say that since the Association had been in existence, with the exception of the instance mentioned, no mention had been made in the newspapers of the Guild. In regard to Mr. Gregg's suggestion as to chapters, there would be no difficulty in establishing one in Toronto, but there might be in other parts of the province, and he would like to hear from some of the outside members regarding that

Mr. Billings (Ottawa,) said that Ottawa was supposed to have an Institute now, but they had never had more than five or six meetings, and he believed the secretary of four or five years ago was still secretary. He could not say whether it had been properly run, but it was not a success. There were not more than one or two other cities outside Toronto that had as many architects as Ottawa, and if it could not be made a success there it could hardly be expected elsewhere. They had had one or two pretty good meetings—one when Mr. Curry came down to explain the working of the Association, but as a general thing there was a great deal of apathy. Even when members did attend they didn't know what they came for. There was nothing to do except to sit down and smoke and read a paper. Even in a large Association like the present, there were but few architects who could find in their experience anything sufficiently novel on which to spend their time and give a paper to the Association. However that might be in Toronto, he felt sure that in Ottawa if meetings were held only when some member had a paper of sufficient novelty and interest to hold the attention of those present, the meetings would not be very numerous.

There was a matter to which, although at present he might be slightly out of order, he desired to draw attention, as it had a bearing upon Ottawa architects. There had appeared in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, a paper published in Toronto, the following article

Lord Aberdeen's request for an addition to Rideau Hall has excited comments from the daily press varying according to the political bias of the paper. One paper is for leaving Rideau Hall as it is and forcing our Governor Generals to conform their manner of living to the ideas of our farmers who, the leader writer asserts, are coming to the front in public affairs and will be found on the side of a policy of democratic simplicity. Another paper is for pulling down Rideau Halt and replacing it by a 'respectable looking mansion.' It is, as it has turned out, a pity that this course was not adopted at first, for according to the figures quoted, Rideau Hall, which cost $82,000 to purchase, has cost $553,000 for repairs and alterations. Whether the need of $15,000 worth of more room is sufficient provocation to pull down what has been done and build the respectable looking mansion now, is a question. It would not be an exact response to the request of the Earl, who has not asked for a new mansion bye and bye, but for a few more rooms now. It hardly seems likely that the old Hall with its additions will be pulled down before it has had a life reasonably proportioned to the money which has been spent upon it. When the time does come for it to be replaced it is to be hoped that some steps will be taken to have the work well designed. It is not the class of building that is likely to he well handled by the Public 'Works Department. The forte of the Chief Architect's office is in its organization for the multiplication of buildings of a similar class. An order for such an unprecedented and (unless the farmer forbids) elaborate piece of work as a new residence for the Governor General would sweep the office like a cyclone. The pavilion representing Canada at the World's Fair has already proved too much for the elasticity of the departmental designer. If a new residence for the Governor-General should get into the hands which produced that work, it is impossible to avoid the conviction that however capacious the mansion might be it would not be 'respectable looking.'"

The portion to which he more particularly called attention was that in which it stated "It is not a class of work that is likely to be well handled by the Public Works Department, etc." Certainly that was not complimentary. He felt sure that no pet son who sneered in that manner at so distinguished an architect as Mr. Fuller was a member of the Association, or even an architect of this or any other province. The paper in question was supposed to be the organ of the Association, and he did not think the organ of the Association should make statements of that character, and he wished to call attention to the way in

