<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT 



World's Fair Buildings has been the unity of the composition, and also that while the architects were rivals in a sense, yet it

was a generous rivalry which produced harmony on account of the agreement as 10 scale, etc. I think one of the lessons gained there was that the classic style is capable of very grand effects when entered into as this scheme was entered into. I suppose that other styles of architecture could have been made as effective, but I think a greater time than was at disposal would have been necessary for the solution of the problem. Of course the architects who were chosen to design these buildings were men who had studied the classic, nearly all of them I think, at the French school, and they were familiar with the proportions and forms, and I think it was only for that reason they were able to produce the designs so rapidly and with such good effect. Of course if we entered into the study of detail there were many defects, but as said by Mr. Langton, the general effect was very satisfactory. Of course these buildings should be regarded simply as plaster models to a full sized scale of what these men could do if they had time. Of course the plaster model as a rule is very considerably modified when the finished work is produced. I think another lesson to be gained from the Exhibition is the value of sculpture. It has really been the first instance of the complete introduction of sculpture as an accessory in America. Mr. Montgomery Schuyler, who has already been quoted, has put the thing into very concise form when he ascribes the success of the Exhibition to three things—first, Unity; second, Magnitude; and third, Illusion. Unity,, in the first place, enabling so many minds to produce effective buildings, because they were working all to the same scale, Magnitude, as Mr. Langton his so well shown, in the long vistas of these buildings, especially the Manufacturers' Building. Speaking of the magnitude, he tells a story of a Chicago man—not an architect, I am happy to say—who wanted the Manufacturers' Building taken down and placed on the lake front and re-erected, the reason that he gave being that it was "the biggest thing on earth." Without regard to the setting of the building as it was at present, he wanted it planked down on the lake front as a monument of the greatness of Chicago, regardless of the effect it gained from its setting and position in relation to the other buildings. I think another lesson is to be gained from the illusive effect. It has been a grand architectural scene provided for the enjoyment of the people. It was, as Schuyler says, Turneresque in effect—such a combination of views as Turner would have delighted in. I think there will be great danger in the future of uneducated architects endeavoring to reproduce some of these buildings on a small scale, the result of which would no doubt be failure. Perhaps men who have not seen the place at all or gained any conception of the surroundings, will see a photograph of some building and repeat it on a small scale, and be surprised that the effect he will get will not be anything like what it was in the original. I think if a taste for the careful study of classic architecture has been engendered by the examples set before the architects of the world it wilt be a grand step in advance, and will prove a wonderful help to the advancement of the profession.

Mr. Townsend:—I have been asked to make a few remarks as to the scale of the buildings, and I shall try to do so as shortly as possible. Mr. Montgomery Schuyler, in one of his admirable articles upon the Architecture of the \World's Fair Buildings, says: That it is a final censure upon the treatment of a piece of architecture which aims at overpowering the spectator by its size, that it does not look its size; as is the current and accepted criticism upon St. Peters;" and although I do not follow him in all his conclusions I fully agree with him in this. It s plain that one of the chief sources, if not the chief source of effect, or means of impressing the observer, at the disposal of the designers, lay in the magnitude of the buildings they were called upon to design, but I do not think the fullest advantage was taken of their unprecedented opportunities in this particular. It is true that the buildings were impressive by their size; a building over a third of a mile in length by half that in width could hardly fail to impress observers by its size; but I trill venture to say that very few of the visitors to the Fair fully realized what those dimensions really mean. Few Torontonians, for instance, when looking at the Manufacturers' Building, realized that if placed upon the corner of King and Yonge Streets, it would about cover the parallelogram enclosed by Yonge, King, Church and Shuter Streets, and that all the buildings between Yonge and Church Streets from King right up to Bloor might be stowed away inside and still leave several millions of cubic feet to spare. Still fewer realized that the space between the water and the buildings on each side of the Court of Honor is about three times the width of Yonge Street.

We have seen,—Mr. Langton has pointed out,—that the landscape plan of the grounds, with its Grand Canal open at one end to the lake and crossed by lesser canals at right angles, presented a problem which could only be properly solved by a somewhat symmetrical treat- ment aiming at a general unity and, that, to secure this, two limiting conditions were agreed to—the adoption of the Classic style and of a module of 23 feet for width of bay and 6o feet in height of cornice. I think that it is generally agreed that the scale fixed by this module was admirably carried out. With hardly an exception the relative values of the buildings, their details and accessories were adjusted- with marked skill. So cleverly indeed was this managed, that the

 discrepancy between the apparent sizes in tire buildings and their actual dimensions was not brought home to the observer until he got inside and began to seek for the cause of the seemingly diminutive character of the exhibits, arid of the innumerable expedients resorted to by the exhibitors with a view of over-coming the dwarfing effects of their surroundings.

I may be wrong, and I am not conceited enough to claim, that, in the merely cursory glance I have been able to give the subject I have found a means of attaining a result not reached by the united efforts of a board, composed of the most noted architects in the United States, but I cannot help thinking that still better results would have followed the adoption of a smaller mod tile.

Just how much the module could bear reducing could only be arrived at by careful study and comparison with other buildings, and I have not given the subject sufficient study to be prepared with an opinion as present. But a reduction of to feet in height of the cornice line, while it would not have reduced the accommodation of the buildings in the slightest degree, would, if the figures given in the Official Guides are correct, have resulted in a saving of nearly three quarters of a million dollars in the buildings on the Court of Honor alone, and in my estimation would hate materially assisted in the development of the magnitude of the buildings and intensified the impression made by it; by a still further repetition of the unit, i. e., the 29 bays on each half of the side of the Manufacturers' Building would be increased to 34; the 24 bays on each side of the Peristyle to 26, and so on, while the reduction in the size of the bays themselves would have been noticeable, only, in the apparently increased scale of the surrounding objects.

Mr. Gemmell:—The task was allotted to me of saying something of the impression made by the work of the Commissioner of the World's Fair, and I hare taken the trouble to write something on that subject, which I will read:

I am expected in give some ides of the completed work— the effect of all the enterprise, labor and millions of money commanding the skill of the best men representing architecture in this generation of the United States was the result such as they could congratulate 

themselves on as artists knowing good and evil?

To satisfy the average citizen of their own country was comparatively an easy task, he having too often been taught in admire as architecture the big, the brilliant and the costly in preference to the refined and true. But to attract the cultured of the old countries wanted a stronger and more subtle magnet, for to these the pilgrimage meant so much more of time and money, and to them art had ever dawned in the East.

My lodging determined that the 59th gate was my entrance to the World's Fair. I would like to have examined my copper plate ticket, but was hurried on by the stream of humanity and found myself in a by-street of the White City. devoted to State buildings and those of Foreign Governments, the prevailing impression of which was wonder at the luxuriant costly way in which they were doing their tenting of a fess- short months Brazil, now fighting over their inheritance, was here like a prodigal wasting her substance in a far country. The rich pile carpets on her staircases were worn in places right through by the countless feet that thronged up and down all day long.

A large number of the State buildings exhibited what some time ago was the general characteristic of American architecture, the original and picturesqueness at all cost But many others were fine examples derived from the proper study of architecture, and this not confined to the older States: the New York and the Colorado Buildings were in the same Italian Villa style, and I liked the latter the best of the two. There also lingers in my memory the quaint California Building and the Roman Villa of Vermont—the former for its striking and dignified effect, gained by such simple means as massive wall spaces, deep reveals and red tile roof and heavy eaves. The Roman Villa riveted the attention by its quiet taste, with its open court and fountains bespeaking a delightful home life under a clear sky and balmy climate, which must have required may years of peace and plenty to foster and enjoy it. The ancients presidents were not always at war and fighting, as we are apt to gather from our histories.

I noticed also the French Pavillion, somewhat coarse I thought on the exterior for that artistic nation, but with a beautiful shady court, having colonnade all around and steps down to the garden. embellished with bronze statuary and refreshing pool of running water.

The German Building, a mediaeval Town Hall, striking and picturesque; although you liked it you could not get over it that there was something barbarous about its outlines and definite color decorations The interior I heard afterwards was a series of old art revivals that I should not have missed.

In my first days walks t occasionally caught glimpses of cornices, pillars and perhaps a corner tower in the distance of pure white, and of grander proportions than those around me, which gave hint that I was not in the heart of the city of which I had heard so much. I did also see the Art Gallery with its stretch of water in front reflecting as pirre refined a building as ever adorned the Acropolis of Athens. But you had to fix your gaze on it and its immediate surroundings. there being much in the vicinity on t of harmony with its extraordinary dignity and repose. The approach from the water was very impressive. By a flight of many steps, with noble lions pedestalled to right and left, you reached the heroic statue of Minerva which marked the centre of the main door.

It was on the second day that I found myself on a bridge across a canal that led into the basin. the one with the great bears on it, and I do not think in all the Fair there was a more favored point of view, one that gave the picture in so many varied. everchanging and beautiful perspectives. as you endeavored to survey the whole. The clear blue waters of the lake had been let into a grand basin and

