<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



which it was edited. He did not think there was in the mind of any member of the Association any question as to Mr. Fuller's ability. In adverting to this matter he desired to say that he was acting entirely upon his own responsibility, and not at the wish or suggestion of any member of the staff reflected upon. He would like to hear the opinions of members of the Association in regard to this question.

Mr. Aylsworth said that after what had been said regarding the establishment of chapters in places outside of Toronto, it was hardly to be expected that it could be done elsewhere. He thought in Toronto the Council might take the place of the suggested chapter and hold meetings whenever occasion offered, which would be noticed in the papers and have the desired effect, while the Guild might still afford the means of social and mutual improvement. It might be a matter of consideration whether some means could not be found by which the Guild would be incorporated with the Association in such a way as to take the place of a local chapter.

The President thought one reason why Mr. Aylsworth's suggestion had not been acted upon was the fact, that the time of the council had hitherto been so fully taken up by the matter of legislation that no time was left for anything else, but he thought the present an opportune time for taking it up, and if possible carrying it into effect. So far as the Guild was concerned, he looked upon that organization as having to a certain extent fulfilled its design, though he would not say it had survived its usefulness. The Association of Architects was largely the outcome of ideas expressed in the Guild. He thought if the Guild was maintained it should be simply as a social organization. The difficulty in regard to the appointment of representatives to the Technical School might be got over by having a meeting of the Council of the Association in Toronto, as it would be a little difficult for the Association as a whole to select those representatives for the Toronto Technical School. In regard to the matter brought up by Mr. Billings, he felt sure all present would regard the publication of such sentiments with regret. It had been said the paper in question was the organ of the Association. There was no other paper which it could make its organ. He would venture to say on behalf of the Association that as an Association they entirely repudiated the publication of the paragraph referred to.

Mr. Gregg said that in order to keep the matter of the formation of branches before the Association he would move that during the coming year the Council consider the advisability of calling occasional meetings of the Toronto members, or of forming a branch in Toronto.

Mr. Burke said that while the wisdom of continuing any discussion of the subject introduced by Mr. Biilings might be doubtful, he would point out that all the buildings at the World's Fair on which there was any room for criticism had been very severely criticized. He did not see himself that there was any particular venom in the paragraph referred to; it was written in just the same spirit as the criticism of the other buildings. He did not think it was well to be too thin skinned, for criticism was a good thing sometimes.

Mr. Darling thought Mr. Fuller would not object to any criticism of a work he had executed, but the paragraph referred to was not of that character, but rather an insinuation against his ability to do something for which he had not even had the opportunity of submitting a design.

The President agreed that no one should object to fair criticism, but as had been pointed out by Mr. Darling, the paragraph in question was not a criticism it did not point out what the defects were, which was the first function of a criticism.

Mr. Bousfield, reverting to the original subject under discussion, suggested the advisability of endeavoring to give a little more publicity to the doings of the Association. The results of the examinations and similar matters might be inserted in the daily press.

Mr. Gouinlock coincided with Mr. Bousfield's views, and thought the meetings of the Council should form the subject of paragraphs in the newspapers.

Mr. Gregg read his motion as follows: "That the Council consider the advisability of calling occasional meetings of the Toronto members for encouraging the formation of a local branch.

Mr. Bousfield seconded the motion.

Mr. Power expressed an apprehension that such a course as was suggested might have a detrimental effect on the Association as a whole.

Mr. Gregg thought the motion was quite harmless; the Council had a majority of outside members, and if they foresaw any danger of hurting outside places the matter would certainly be allowed to drop. He did not think it was going too far to ask the Council to consider the matter, and it put the whole question off for another year.

Mr. Billings thought such occasional meetings as had been suggested might be held by the Association as a whole in Toronto, and any outside members who happened to be here or within reach might avail themselves of them.

Mr. Power described the "Institute of Building Arts" carried on under the auspices of the Illinois Chapter of the Association of Architects in Chicago. They had a large flat which was sustained in this way. The floor space was rented to manufacturers and others having building appliances for sale, who made

a display there. This brought in a revenue efficient to pay the rent of the flat. They had monthly meetings at this room, at which architects from other places could drop in, and a special meeting every three months. He thought a similar arrangement ought to be feasible in Toronto, and would be beneficial to both the architects and those making the display.

Mr. Curry called attention to the difficulty there was even in Toronto in getting members to attend a meeting, pointing to the small attendance at the Convention as an illustration. If the members themselves would not do something to help along it was no use calling upon the Council to call meetings. The Guild which had been spoken of had had very strict rules to prevent this lack of attendance, to which it owed very largely its success. If a reasonable attendance could be depended upon, such meetings as suggested would be all very well, but it was no use attempting it if out of the forty men in Toronto only four or five attended. A man who had spent some hours, perhaps days, in preparing a paper to be read at such a meeting, would think it a very poor return for his labor to have to read it to an empty room. There was too much of a feeling abroad among the members that somebody else should do something to make a success of these meetings. If anything was to be expected it must be through individual action. if it could be shown that there was any desire on the part of members to attend such meetings, as suggested, the resolution was a good thing, if not, nothing could be expected from it.

The President, in order to meet Mr. Power's objection, suggested that the resolution be amended by saying, "Occasional meetings of the members in Toronto," instead of occasional meetings of the Toronto members.

Mr. Gregg expressed his willingness to make the amendment, and the resolution, so amended, was carried.

Mr. Gregg then read the following paper —

ESTIMATING THE COST OF BUILDINGS FROM CALCULATION OF THEIR CUBICAL CONTENTS.

<article title=" ESTIMATING THE COST OF BUILDINGS FROM CALCULATION OF THEIR CUBICAL CONTENTS " author="Gregg">

An architect often finds it necessary to estimate the cost of a proposed building before more than an outline sketch has been prepared and before specifications have been written.

In such a case he naturally brings to mind a building of the same class, which has already been erected, arid of which he knows the exact cost. If such a one can be thought of, and if it is of the same general dimensions, he has simply to make allowance for changes that may have taken place in the prices of labor and materials, and has little trouble in arriving at the required estimate. If, however, the building which seems most suitable for the purpose is somewhat larger or smaller than the one proposed, he finds that by taking its cubical bulk or contents and that of the proposed building as a ratio, he may find the proportionate cost with a great deal of certainty, especially if the difference in size is not great. This experience has led to a system, more or less common, of keeping, for reference, a record of the cost per cubic foot of buildings which have been erected, or upon which tenders have been received, and such a record, although often an imperfect guide, is worth the small amount of trouble required in its preparation, and with the entries made from line to time its value will increase.

Within the past few days I have seen a few of the Toronto architects and they have kindly compared notes with me upon this subject and contributed some information used in this paper, which is written with the object of leading to a further interchange of ideas in the discussion which should follow.

I would recommend the following simple method of keeping a record of cubic contents and cost, and would say that the information an architect has of this kind from his own buildings is the best for him, as it is probable that no other architect is quite similar in his style of work and finish.

A book or a number of sheets of paper should he ruled in suitable widths for the following columns: 1st, date, (year); 2nd, name of building, (or owner); 3rd, where erected; 4th, short description 5th, cubical contents in feet; 6th, cost of building; 7th, cost per cubic foot; 8th, remarks. The kinds of buildings should be classified so that prices of one class may be seen and compared at a glance in one column. Examples were here shown similar to the following:

	Date Name.	Description.	Remarks.

(	13 IN.	—	— —	—)





In computing the cubical contents the rule most commonly used is to measure the building as a whole or in parts from the bottom of the footings to a point hall way up the slope of roof, this being done in parts where there are different heights of roofs, towers, etc. In measuring brick or stone buildings, light wooden porticos or verandas are usually omitted. There should be a uniform system of omitting or including such items as heating. mantels, grates and tiles, electric wiring, or of noting two rates, one omitting and the other including these.

Supposing that cubing our public schools would give nearly uniform results, I saw Mr. C. H. Bishop, the Superintendent of Toronto School Buildings, and he kindly made out a list of the cost of twelve buildings recently erected with the rate per cubic foot, and this varied by half and quarter cents all the way from to 71/3 cents, the variation not being governed by the number of class rooms. This shows that the system is not perfect, and that for very correct results, other methods must be used.

I shall close with a list of the most common classes of buildings, giving a price for each per cubic foot, simply as an opinion which may be altered upon further observation. It is intended for Toronto, and is probably higher than in other places in Ontario.

Plain stables, brick, not including complete iron fittings	-		7c.

Plain brick dwellings, detached or semi-detached, pine finish, furnaces

	and mantels				8c.

Detached brick d dwellings with plain stone trimmings, hardwood finish

	on ground floor, hot water heating and mantels	-	-	-	10c.

