<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



proprietor had told him that the basement was more valuable than the first floor, owing to the predilection of customers to go prowling down below rather than to go up, expecting to get bargains in the cellar that they would not find on the first floor.

Mr. Townsend said there was one point in the paper which he was inclined, though not very strongly, to object to. He referred to the suggestion that an attempt should be made to follow existing examples in work of this kind. He thought if the architect would look at the question more as a business problem, more as a practical question of putting up a building which, while it should not be positively ugly, would at the same time properly fulfil the requirements of the situation, he would arrive at better results on the whole than could be obtained by any attempt to work in a style that was formulated or that grew out of a different set of conditions.

Mr. Simpson asked if the difficulty Mr. Bousfield found was in the fact that business men wanted to make a show of their goods on windows above the ground floor. If it was desirable to get the lights above the ground floor as large as possible he thought it must be only because the architect's taste ran in that way. if it was desired to have the openings above the ground floor as large as possible it would be better to choose a style which lent itself to that treatment, If business men did not require to show their goods above the ground floor, and he could not see why they should, he (lid not think there should be much difficulty in getting sufficient light for displaying his goods in almost any style.

Mr. Langton said it seemed very much as if for commercial buildings pure and simple this was the problem of iron construction. It is being worked out in the United States by the aid of iron, but not as a problem in iron design. If the entire building is to be devoted to one purpose, and that a purpose requiring abundance of light, while as is usual the exterior wall area is so small that none can be well spared, he thought the architect would be judicious and would act most in the interests of his client if he seriously considered the question as an occasion for designing in iron. Where the upper part of the building  was devoted to another purpose, such as offices, where very large windows are a discomfort rather than a gain, the problem became a complicated one for which he was not prepared on the spur of the moment to offer a solution; but he thought it probable that an artistic result would be obtained by continuing up the line of the slender supports in the lower storey and making the wall surface above by material and construction to be obviously only a filling in to reduce the window space.

Mr. Gregg thought the problem being discussed was a very old one. The practice of building thick glass fronts on the ground floor with a heavier building above was so old that it had almost come to be accepted, although architects could never agree that it was pleasing and right. We became accustomed to it in a one story building, and then it had come into Toronto in two story buildings. The Walker building was a very curious affair. The supports were probably fifty feet apart, and the space between light glass windows with partitions. Whether there was a support behind the divisions could not be seen, and what was presented to the eye was a very heavy stone front supported by two storys of plate glass. Of course that could not be accepted as high art, although it might be tolerated as what was demanded by the commercial requirements of today. The question was, if buildings of that sort were to be put tip, should there be stone above the glass at all? Should not the same construction be carried through to the roof? He had seen an office building in Ottawa that lie thought was a success in one way Every office in the building had a plate glass bow window; the bow windows were carried up to the root. It might not be pure architecture, but it had a pleasing effect, far more so than a building having glass below and stone above.

Mr. Bousfield said that some of those present did not seem to have quite understood him. Mr. Simpson seemed to think he was referring to a simple series of shop fronts on the ground floor, lie thought everyone must have observed the increasing number of buildings on Yonge, King, Bay and Front streets, the proprietors of which were trying to expose their wares to view on every floor, making every floor a shop front. Mr. Gregg seemed to think the problem very old, Now he was not attempting at all to deal with the ground floor story of plate glass. But the whole front of the building was gradually becoming a front of plate glass, and probably iron, on account of the small space the latter occupied. Mr. Burke thought it was almost a hopeless problem to make it anything really architectural, and Mr. Townsend thought he meant that they should restrict themselves to these different styles. The problem was before them, and lie thought if the architects did not attempt to solve it no one else would, and it was a nice problem for them as professional men to work out something which would be more really architectural than the everlasting horizontal lines that prevailed. He noticed that in some of the buildings where shop Fronts were carried up only two floors, with the rest solid, they had arranged it by having a large central arch with two piers, one on each side, and then the arch above carrying the span over the whole. That plan and the horizontal lines seemed to be the only ideas at present being utilized. It would no doubt take a long time to work out the desired object, but unless the attempt was made, everyone who had a shop front built would stick to the straight lines or the one great central arch. He did

	with Mr.	Townsend that in a commercial building it

was almost impossible to work out anything really architectural and he thought it their duty as architects to make every building as architectural as they could, and if limited to certain forms of construction they should endeavor to make those forms as presentable and as architectural as possible.

Mr. Townsend thought Mr. Bousfield had not quite caught his idea; what he had tried to express was not that a building should not be architecturally correct, but that it was not well to try and compress modern requirements into forms that were the outgrowth of ancient requirements.

Mr. Burke thought he too had been misapprehended by Mr. Bousfield. What he had referred to in his discussion was the attempt to combine modern requirements with what are e considered the best models of ancient architecture. With regard to the wall space above, he thought the only satisfactory way of treating it was by using the arch which was now to be seen in so many buildings, but the difficulty about the arch was that its haunches obstructed the light on that floor, and made it not nearly so valuable, although be thought it looked more correct constructionally.

Mr. Gemmell asked if the objection to the heavy front borne on a front of plate glass below had any force beyond a sentimental feeling? Did not the plate glass with the reflections of light and color look almost as solid as polished granite? He thought the attempt to get over the difficulty by the use of the arch was very much the weaker plan.

Mr. Belcher said the question at issue had been a source of perplexity to architects for the last thirty-five or forty years—the choice between art and the requirements of the businesses for which the stores were intended. Efforts had been made both in the old country and here to avoid this semblance of want of support in the upper storys, which he thought up to the present had been rather overdone. He feared that the requirements of trade would render difficult for a long time any satisfactory solution of the problem. 1 lc thought the large arch referred to. did to some extent overcome the difficulty, In the old country the effort of the architect had been to make the supports as apparent as possible and to as much as possible avoid all sham, a course which he thought ought to be adhered to. He thought a building should be of such a character  as to indicate the purpose for which it was intended.

Mr. Billings thought there was too much anxiety to make ancient examples fit modern requirements. He thought that was a matter of no consequence. If there was a problem to start with, it was far better to start de novo.

Mr. Paull said he supposed Mr. Bousfield when referring to buildings on Bay Street and King Street had in his mind the building on King Street opposite the Cathedral and one below Wellington on Bay Street. He did not remember any others where there was so much plate glass. It did seem to him that there was too much plate glass for the amount of iron built into the structure.

Mr. Bousfield said those were the buildings to which he referred, Oak Hall and a building on Bay Street.

Mr. Gregg said that in arranging for one Convention the proposition had been made that architects should submit photographs of their own work for criticism, and sit and listen to the criticism of them. That proposition had not been carried out lie would ask if it was right to bring tip the name of a practising architect. He thought it was not. In the case of the Walker building the architect had passed away, and it was a perfectly legitimate subject of criticism.

Mr. Paull differed from Mr. Gregg on the point stated. And as to the Walker building, while the architect of the first building had passed away, the designer of the second was living.

Mr. Gregg replied that that was doubtless true, but that no doubt the architect of the second building was given an order for the replica of the first.

Mr. Townsend thought if the criticism was fair and honest it did the man whose building was criticized more good than anyone else. He would regard it as a compliment that any person should think his work good enough to stand criticism, and there was nothing he liked better than to go over his work and find where his mistakes had been made.

Mr. Gregg asked for a ruling of the question raised by him. The Association had yesterday repudiated something that approached a criticism of a government office, and he thought the present question was similar.

Mr. Paull remarked that the cases were not at all parallel. In the one case the architect had erected his work, and it had become public property, while in the other not only had he not erected the work, but it had not even been determined that the building should be erected, and the Criticism was as to the architect's ability to erect such a building.

Mr. Simpson agreed in the proposition that it was not right to criticize a man's work and mention his name.

The President said it had always been admitted among themselves that one of the advantages to be gained by association was the comparison and criticism in a fair spirit of the work done by architects. Where criticism took thc shape of pointing out what one man thought might have been accomplished in a better way than the one adopted he thought that was fair criticism, and he did not think anyone could object to having his buildings mentioned and his name as the architect. As Mi.

