<doctype type="text">

Fuller, Ottawa, Mr. H. B. Gordon, Toronto, and Mr. J. Gemmell, Toronto.

The following votes of thanks were then proposed and carried:

To the Hon. The Minister of Education, for the use of the 100m in which the Convention was held.

To the Auditors, for their labors in auditing the accounts.

To the President, for the able address presented by him this year.

Mr. Langley and Mr. Gregg were then appointed Auditors for the year.

The President then declared the Convention for 1894 adjourned.

<article title=" THE DINNER " author="">

THE DINNER.

The annual dinner was tendered, as usual, by the resident to the non-resident members, at Webb's restaurant, and at the social board a few hours were pleasantly spent.

Among the guests were Professors Galbraith and Coleman, Messrs. C. H. C. Wright and T. R. Rosebrugh. of the School of Practical Science.

A few informal toasts were proposed and honored. Mr. Burke in proposing "The Profession," referred to the efforts which had been put forth to obtain legislation by which the word "Registered" would no longer qualify the word "Architect" in the Architects' Act. He urged the members to stand by the Association and the objects it was seeking to attain. While there was reason to deplore the apathy of some of the members, the excellent character of the meeting which had just come to a close, was a subject for congratulation. The main object of the Association should be the education of the rising generation of architects.

Mr. Curry, in responding. referring to the difficulties in the way of the Association, said that it was well to have obstacles to overcome, necessitating the putting forth of effort. Those qualified by education should alone be allowed to call themselves "Architects." The civilization of the present day demanded proof of competency on the part of both the pro- fessions arid the trades. The Association should be maintained whether the desired legislation is secured or not, on account of the benefits resulting from the better acquaintanceship of the architects themselves and the removal of petty jealousies.

Mr. Langton proposed a toast to "The School of Practical Science," and took occasion to express appreciation of the advantages derived by the Association from contact with the School.

Prof. Galbraith, in reply, referred to the Geological and Architectural departments of the School, and said that as a school they were sufficiently interested in architecture to wish that the profession might be made a close corporation. Only by this means could the standard of professional work be maintained, which formerly was done by the guilds.

Prof. Coleman said the world was full of artists, good bad and indifferent, but the public was placed under no obligation to look at their work. With architecture it was different. The work of the architect is exposed to view on the public thoroughfares, not temporarily, but for a period of many years. It must be looked at. Nothing so affects for good or bad the taste of everybody, therefore the government should as far as possible impose such conditions as would prevent the erection of architectural abortions.

Mr. C. H. C. Wright stated that the Association had been a benefit to the School. As yet they had only a poor collection of photographs representing the architecture of the province, and he would be pleased therefore if the members of the Association would send him photos, drawings, etc., from which lantern slides could be nude and a permanent collection formed. Where required these photos and drawings would be returned to their owners after being retained for a few days at the school.

Mr. Rosebrugh, Lecturer in Electricity, also responded briefly to the toast.

Mr. Jarvis remarked that as there was only here and there a young man with the qualifications of a successful architect, he hoped the Architectural Department at the School of Science would endeavor to discourage those students who had no natural aptitude for the profession.

Mr. Gouinlock in suitable terms proposed "Our Guests."

Mr. Power in responding adverted to the success of the Convention just held, and urged effort on the part of those present to increase the membership of the Association.

Mr. Belcher responded with a song.

Mr. Billings thanked the Association for having elected his chief, Mr. Fuller, to a position on the Council.

Messrs. Edwards, of Hamilton, and Kinsey, of Port Elgin, commented upon the fact that while some outside members had come long distances to attend the Convention, many of the members resident in Toronto were conspicuous by their absence.

Mr. Kennedy, of Barrie, replied briefly.

Mr. Burke expressed his pleasure at seeing present the first graduate under the Architects' Act, Mr. Baxter, of Stratford.

Mr. Baxter, in reply, said that for 99 per cent. of what he knew about architecture he had to thank the Association, and he strongly urged upon architectural students the advantage to be derived from submitting themselves for examination. The Association, he was sorry to say, was not as well known as it should be throughout Western Ontario. He was sorry also that there were no other members from west of Stratford present.

Mr. Curry, in responding to "The Council," congratulated that body upon the election of three such capable men as had that day been added to their number. For himself, he had been connected with the Association in an official capacity ever since its organization, and now for the first time found himself in the position of a private member.

The health of the retiring President, Mr. D. 13. Dick, was enthusiastically received, accompanied by expressions of appreciation of the ability and faithfulness with which as President he had served the interests of the Association.

Mr. Dick, in reply, said that he had done his best for the Association, especially in connection with the examination of students. As a means of awakening a greater interest in the Association and a wider knowledge of its objects, he hoped that the new Council would arrange for a series of lectures to which the public should be invited.

The toast to "The Press" was acknowledged by Mr. C. H. Mortimer, of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and "The Ladies," by Messrs. Connolly, Jarvis and Sproatt.

At intervals, during the proceedings of the evening, songs were sung by Messrs. Gouinlock, Connolly and Belcher.

A great deal of amusement was afforded also by the clever ventriloquist performances of Mr. Simpson.

<article title=" BUILDING MATERIALS IN THE NORTHWEST " author="Alford, Walter">

BUILDING MATERIALS IN THE NORTHWEST.

BELLEVILLE, ONT., Feb. 9th, 1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—Circumstances have given me an opportunity to visit the North West Territory and examine the building materials in that part, which may be interesting to many of the readers of

the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

During the past year I have been under a contract with the Dominion Government to build a post office at Calgary, which placed me in a position to notice and examine the resources in that part of the country in the way of material for building purposes.

What will strike a visitor to Calgary as being marvelous is the solid appearance of the buildings erected there, for stores, banks, hotels and the new public building. The reason for this is, they are built with a sandstone found in abundance in that locality, very easily worked to any design, and which gives the whole structure a solid substantial appearance, and the use of which the Department of Public Works has not been slow to encourage. Although no improved appliances have been introduced into the quarries, I have seen some large stones quarried. My men quarried a stone of the following dimensions 18 ft. long, 8 ft. wide and 3 ft. thick. When first quarried the stone is very soft, of a buff color, with a green tint, but soon hardens by exposure. I have seen tombstones and monuments worked out of this stone, to designs which give an excellent appearance. The lime is white, and the quality is equal to any I have used in Ontario. There is also slate used for roofing, of a very good quality, brought from New Westminster, B. C. Lumber, lath, etc., is furnished at about the same prices as in many parts of Ontario.

I have no doubt, that with such materials in abundance, in a few years some of our best monuments of architecture will be found in the Alberta districts. I also' believe a great future is in store for that part of the country, with its coal mines to be found all over for hundreds of miles, also u-on beds, water in abundance, and the lands of the best. Just now the demand is limited for the materials I have named, but with better railway facilities it will be sure to increase, and in a few years that country will be better known and appreciated.

I do not write this to induce mechanics to go there; that is not the class wanted, but men used to agricultural pursuits cannot fail to do well. But, my object in sending these few lines is to inform your numerous subscribers what that part of our great country produces in our line of business.

Yours, etc.

WALTER ALFORD,

Contractor, etc., Belleville, Ont.



COM PETITION.

THE competition for designs for a library and museum for the city of Milwaukee, Wis., has been decided in favor of Messrs. H. C. Koch & Co., of Milwaukee. Seventy-four designs were submitted, from which Prof. Ware, the expert, selected five as the most suitable, and of these five the committee gave Messrs. Koch & Co.'s first place. Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell, of Toronto, were among the competitors in this competition.



PUBLICATIONS.

We are indebted to the Potsdam Red Sandstone Co. of Potsdam, N. V., for a copy of their artistically designed and lithographed calendar for 1894.

The Cosmopolitan for February introduces a famous European author to its readers—Valdes of Madrid, and the artist Marold, of Paris, well known as a French illustrator.

Mr. Fred. P. Spalding, assistant Professor of Civil Engineering in Cornell University. is the author of a work of 100 pages, which has just reached our table, entitled "Notes on the Testing and Use of Hydraulic Cement.' Price, $1.00, bound in cloth.

Encouraged by the compliments bestowed upon their calendar of 1893, the 13. Greening Wire Company, of Hamilton, Ont., have issued a handsome and serviceable calendar for the present year. It is printed in four colors, the blank spaces being filled with illustrations of the manufactures of the company, and on the back, are given a number of reference tables.

