<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.

<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" STUDENTS' COMPETITION " author="">

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

IN connection with the Students' Competition for a Drug Store and I)welling, the conditions of which were announced in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for February, we regret to state that the number of designs received was not sufficient to form a basis for the decision of the competition by a vote of the students as provided for by the conditions.

It may be that the time allowed for the preparation of the drawings was not deemed sufficient, and also that the time of a number of students who would otherwise have entered the competition was fully taken up with the Ontario Association of Architects examinations. In view of the possibility that these causes may have hindered the success of the competition, it has been thought desirable to extend the date when the competition will close to the 8th of April.

It is hoped that in consequence of this extension of time a larger number of students will decide to submit drawings. Should this hope prove to be ill-founded, the competition will necessarily be withdrawn.





INTERCOMMUNICATION COLUMN.



This column is intended to afford a means of correspondence for students, builders, and all our readers desiring information they cannot otherwise obtain. Questions for which an immediate reply is required should be marked Urgent." Names and addresses of correspondents must be sent with their communications, but these may be signed with initials or otherwise for publication.





QUESTIONS.



[91. 1 have had a present of $50 for the purchase of books most useful to me as a student of architecture and want advice how best to spend it? Could you get information for me in your new column.—BUDDING ARCHITECT.



[10]. An old stone barn in an exposed situation suffers much from the weather on one side. The stone it is built of is soft and though it was all carefully pointed up in the fall, the stone itself seems to need treatment. Can you tell me any method of preserving it that will be effectual as well as inexpensive?—J. B.

M.

[11]. I should be glad if "G" [6] would give me some information as to what papers he would suggest for circulation in the proposed "Club." I should be pleased to join but would like to know about the expense proposed to be borne by each member.

[12]. The snow lies thickly on a church roof and what with the sun, and also the warmth of the building it sometimes slides off with a roar that drowns the voice of the preacher and considerably startles the congregation. Is there any way to prevent this?—N. J.





REPLIES.

[1]. "Analysis of Ancient Domestic Architecture," by Doll-man & Gibbons, "Baronial Halls," by Harding and others, "Domestic Architecture in England," Turner.

[2]. H. W.—There can be no doubt that hollow walls properly constructed, have many advantages over solid walls. It is best to build them with the air space as near the exterior as possible, i.e., in a brick wall, the air space should be next to the half brick facing, but in a stone-faced wall the air space must necessarily be against the internal brick work. Careful bonding of the thin portion to the thick, is a sine qua non, as also is a damp preventing course at the bottom of the air space; the inside face of the outside brick or stone face should be well purged, and if these precautions are taken a hollow wall will be a great improvement to a building—P. NI.



[2]. H. W.-—I would recommend "H. W." to read what is said about "Hollow Walls" in Vol. II. "Notes on Building Construction," (South Kensington).



[4]. "Builder":—You say your contract does not say anything about the time for final payment; does it say anything about payment by certificate?—there may be a clause which covers the whole subject I can hardly understand a contract without such particulars. Without a stipulated time for Payment the architect s certificate does not bind the owner to pay at a stated time. I suppose your only remedy would be under the "Mechanics' Lien Act." Great care should be executed in dealing with such questions as this, and without the fullest particulars of the case, I can hardly venture to advise. I would recommend you to see your lawyer and suggest to him to study "Mechanics' Legal Hand Book" before advising you.—L. A. W.



[5] "Quebecer."—If you "invoke the aid of the law" to set you free, you would find that your "written agreement" was binding upon you, unless there is a clause in reference to the point raised. You have apparently been fifteen months at the profession ; to do nothing but "kick your heels" would seem a waste of time certainly. Instead of having any unpleasantness with your employer, your wisest course is to ask him to help and direct you in a course of study, to prepare for being of greater use to him when more busy days arrive and to fit you for the examinations which you ought to go up for. You should have gone up for the "first intermediate" this month. Look up the

published questions of last years 0. A. A. examinations and see if you can answer them; if not, here is a field with which to occupy yourself with great profit. You should be able to answer all these questions after being fifteen months in an architect's office.—[ED. "INT. COL."

[7] "Jack."—The only way of mounting tracings on drawing paper so as not to injure them when rolled up, is to stick down one side and leave the others loose. It should be the top side, and it should then be rolled from this side; that, however, can hardly be called "mounting."—J. C.



[81. " Architect."—Write to Mr. C. LI. C. Wright, of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, who. from tests of cement ma(le at the institution, could no doubt tell you the most reliable brands for your work in the country. Being at a distance you cannot easily get your cement tested, of course. Possibly one or two rough methods of test may help you. Fill a bottle with a paste made with neat cement and let it stand for a few days, if the cement is not in good condition it will expand and crack the bottle, or if it has not been burnt enough the cement will shrink slightly. Plunge your bare arm into the cement; if it feels cold it is bad, if hot it requires more turning over; to be good it should be pleasantly warm to the skin. I have known some fairly eminent men make use of the latter test when no other means were at hand.—" ARCHITECTUS."

N. B.—With reference to the suggested "Reading Club," we are sorry that we have not heard from more students so far, but when "G" answers the question which appears this month about it, we shall be somewhat surprised if there is not a rush to take advantage of it. The expenses we should think would not be more than a dollar (perhaps less) to each member.— [ED. "INT. COL."

[13]. Where and of whom can we procure a book on bricklaying ?—J. R. & SON, Dorchester, N. B.

[13]. We can procure for you any of the following books on bricklaying -" Useful Information for Bricklayers," being an improved method for setting out gauged arches, by J. Buckle, price $1.00; "Drawing for I3ricklayers" by E. A. Davidson, illustrated, $1.50; The Rudiments of Practical Bricklaying," by

A.	Hammond, including general principles of arch-drawing, cutting and setting, pointing, paving, tiling, etc., illustrated, intended to be a hand book for apprentices and beginners, 6o cents ; " Practical Brick Cutting and Setting," by the same author,. illustrated. 108 pages, 6o cents; "Brick Work," a practical treatise on the higher principles of cutting and setting and the application of geometry to roof tiling, etc., two editions, illustrated, 6o cents each edition.—ED. INT. COL.





USEFUL HINTS.

Paste may be kept several months without getting mouldy if a little pulverized blue stone is added while hot.



Professor Laurie in a recent lecture at the Society of Arts, stated that there are at least two preparations on the market which are as valuable commercially as white lead. whilst they lack its qualities which are so harmful to human life. These are sulphate of lead and oxide of zinc. A mixture of the two, known as "Freeman's White, has been proved to have a greater covering power as a pigment than white lead, whilst oxide of zinc keeps its color for a much longer time in impure air, and is therefore valuable for interior work.

TAR PATHS—Secure a firm foundation, and slope the ground with cinders or gravel, allowing a quick run towards the gutter. Sift furnace ashes through 1/2in. screen and well mix with gas tar, lay on a layer 3in. thick, well tread down, and finish by continually rolling, sifting over a little dry ashes and lime to prevent roller sticking. The greatest art is in finding how much tar is required to "set" the ashes, and not to put more, or it will be soft and spongy in warm weather. No absolute rule can be laid down, as much depends both upon the quality and nature of ashes. Try a small piece first, measuring both tar and  ashes. use your own judgment as to the proportions. Do not boil the tar.

EXPANSION OF GIRDERS. —A writer on strains in girders referring to the amount of movement of iron girders clue to expansion and contraction under extreme variations of temperature, observes that for iron and steel the coefficient or rate of expansion is nearly 1 inch for 100 of heat (F. for every 100 feet in length. Thus a girder 6o feet in length will expand six-tenths of an inch for 100 increase of temperature, and contract the same amount for 100 decrease of temperature; or a girder 75 feet long will vary seventy-five-one-hundredths of an inch, or 3/4 inch. For a variation of 100. He says: In order to provide for all contingencies it is the general practice to allow for a vibration of 100 F., or a movement equal to 11/2 inches for every 100 feet in length.' A girder 60 feet long will therefore require to have an allowance for movement in the moving end equal to nine-tenths of an inch or inch. the other end being fixed. It is only necessary to put the rollers under one end of the girder, so that the movement of the girder may be at that end only.

FIREPROOF WHITEWASH—A most effective composition for fireproofing exterior surfaces may be formed by slacking a sufficient quantity of freshly burned quick-lime of the best grade, and, when slacking is complete, there is added such an amount of skim milk, or water in its absence, as will make the liquid of the consistency of cream. To every ten pounds of this liquid is added separately and in powder, stirring constantly, the following ingredients in the order named: Two pounds of alum, twenty-four ounces of sub-carbonate of potassium or commercial potash, and one pound of common salt. If white paint I desired, a further addition is made to the liquid, though the whiteness is found to be improved by the addition of a few ounces of plaster of Paris. Lampblack has the effect of giving it a number of shades from slate color to black. Whatever tint is used it is incorporated at this stage, and the whole. after being strained through sieve, is run through a paint mill. When ready to apply the paint is heated nearly to the boiling point of water, and is put on in its hot condition. It is found that the addition of a quantity of fine white sand to this composition renders it a valuable covering for roofs and crumbling brick walls, which it serves to protect.

