<doctype type="text">motifs from other sources. Their methods of study and differences of taste led them in various directions the spirit of eclecticism prevailed, and is still dominant.



There had been, even when the Richardsonian movement was at its height, some few men who had never inclined to the popular style; educated like him, in the French schools of architecture, thoroughly trained in and imbued with Classical art, they had remained true to their early training and had all along been producing good work of the Classic and Renaissance types. The waning of the Romanesque brought this style of design into special prominence, and the reaction which followed the surfeiting of the public taste with the characteristic freeness and irregularity of the former only served to render the symmetry and precision, the studied proportions, the refined and delicate detail of the beautiful Renaissance the more attractive. The example of these leaders, prominent among whom may be mentioned the names of R. M. Hunt and McKim, Mead and White, was soon followed by other members of the profession, and the new order of things quickly spread. About this time the projected Columbian Exposition at Chicago offered an unprecedented opportunity for architectural achievement, and the selection of Renaissance and Classic styles for its principal buildings and the subsequent successful carrying out of the designs was all that was needed to make these styles, perhaps even more popular than the Romanesque in its palmiest (lays. Still, though no other style or styles can fairly be considered as in the field for popular favor, the disciples and exponents of many other types of architecture are not idle, nor do they fail to find an appreciative and responsive public. The variety of style as exhibited to-day in all classes of buildings is simply amazing. A walk through a residential street in almost any of our cities or larger towns affords a striking confirmation of this fact. Here for instance, we may see a large imposing residence, the great detached columns in the Ionic or Corinthian order extending through two stories and supporting the entablature with its low, broad pediment, the wide verandahs, the central doorway with semicircular fanlight, the broad square topped windows with moulded architraves, all tending to carry one back to the old Colonial days. Close by is a handsome dwelling with a high steep roof with ornamental ousting. the circular corner bays rising through the several stories and terminating in a graceful pointed roof, dormer windows, large and high, with slender crocketted pinnacles and sweeping lofty pediment and finial, window and door openings with ornamented pilasters of slight projection and moulded enriched cornices, all with a degree of symmetry and balance and loftiness, strongly suggestive of the French chateau. Across the way, possibly, is a dwelling of Elizabethan type, with coped gables of fanciful and pleasing outline. On a little farther, and we pass several residences in what we will call for want of a better name, the American dwelling house style,—lower story built of brick or rough faced stone, above this the walls and gables faced with shingles, sometimes without color other than the soft silver grey tint produced by the weather, but oftener stained in some of the pleasing hues of brown or olive here is a tastily designed oriel window, there a cosily recessed and deeply shaded balcony on one side the simple outline of the roof is broken by a graceful turret or dormer, on another it descends with sweeping curve to form the roof of a verandah. The general contour is certainly pleasing, the outline often picturesque, and there is an unmistakably homelike air about the whole that attracts in spite of many eccentricities and incongraities. It may be called the typical American home, in the production of which American architecture has gained its greatest success. But we are pre-eminently a commercial people and may naturally look to the buildings devoted to commerce in order to gauge the architectural progress of the day.



In any reference to current architecture in this country, the business buildings take a conspicuous place and we will briefly discuss some of their most characteristic features. And here, as nowhere else, has been brought to our architects a problem for the solution of which there was absolutely no precedent. The tremendous expansion of trade and commerce during the last two or three decades, has correspondingly increased the value of land in our great commercial centres and has necessitated the construction of those enormously high buildings which are the wonder, if not the admiration, of all who visit us. These buildings of 12, 15 and even 20 stories have been adversely criticized by some ; but was it to be expected that in such an entirely new departure no mistakes would be made? The wonder rather is that such a measure of success as has unquestionably been achieved in the case of not a few of these gigantic buildings, should have been attained in view of the extreme difficulties of the problem. In perhaps the majority of instances the designing of these tall constructions, in which the height is so greatly disproportioned to the width, has been so skillfully managed by the disposition of the horizontal lines that the effect of height has been to a large extent obscured. The Romanesque style has been most happily employed in many cases, the usual disposition of the parts as seen in European mediaeval structures tending itself admirably to the requirements of the design which is commonly composed of a basement boldly and massively treated comprising two or three stories, then a central division of several stories in height with disposition of arches, the whole composition terminating in an attic of two or three stories, In the most successful buildings the angles have been

admirably managed so as to give the appearance of strength and dignity necessary in structures of such size. Some of the later designs are in the popular Renaissance style and show a very clever treatment of the problem.

A word as to prevailing styles in ecclesiastical work. In a nation of such cosmopolitan character as America, embracing an almost innumerable variety of religious beliefs, it might be expected that great differences of style would be found, and such is the case. Romanesque, Gothic, Mauresque, Spanish and many other types are represented, though for the most part, it must be admitted to the discredit alike of their designers and the congregations for whom erected. In no class of architecture have the Americans so much to learn as in their church buildings. Still in their more recent works, signs of improvement are not wanting. The notable competition, a few years since, for the great Episcopal cathedral of New York has clone not a little to advance e ecclesiastical architecture. Although, as pointed out previously, a great variety of styles prevails in church work, it is doubtful if any are as appropriate for this class of building as the beautiful gothic forms, and the latest designs of perhaps a majority of our leading architects clearly point to this conclusion.

In her public and legislative buildings, with one or two notable exceptions, America has less claim to congratulation than in other architectural achievements, although here too, the most recently designed buildings show vast improvement over earlier work. No reference to American architecture is complete without allusion to the Capitol at Washington, a building of which any nation might well be proud. Although it cannot be termed a modern building, yet, inasmuch as the style in which it was built is more popular to-day than when it was designed, a reference to it is specially appropriate here. It is too well known to need description, and it is questionable if a structure of such stately dignity and grandeur will ever cease to exert a powerful influence on the architectural productions of the American people. In this sketch of current American architecture may be seen much that is encouraging. That there is an abundance of life and vigor is evident and that the character of our work has steadily and rapidly improved is equally apparent. Probably one of the most perplexing circumstances presented to our minds is the great variety of styles seen in our modern buildings, a spirit of restlessness, a lack of definite purpose which would seem necessary for the proper development of our art. Why is this so? Possibly one reason may be the deeper and fuller knowledge of the architectural styles of the past. If this is the case there need certainly be no fear as to the result, bearing in mind the fact that such knowledge includes not only an acquaintance with the form, but what is of vastly greater importance, a perception of the idea, of the principles underlying the outward form. To possess this knowledge and the power to apply it, requires patient thought and study, but there is no other royal road to the true development of architecture. Or again a reason may be the search after new elements of beauty, fresh and varied forms of architectural expression. This too need cause no alarm. Have we not in the works of nature an infinite variety of beautiful forms from the designs of the Divine Architect refreshing and delight some to cur senses. Can we wonder then in this age of versatility, of the ever changing forms of architecture? The impressive and stately monuments of classic art cannot satisfy every condition of aesthetic taste and it is doubtless in response to this characteristic of our nature, that we may see, in the case, for instance, of domestic architecture, the signs of a return to the picturesque and quaint beauties of the half timbered houses of a decade or two since, in the very latest designs of some of our leading architects.

We may not look for the formation of a new style; all attempts in this direction have resulted in dismal failure, and this after all is not to be wondered at when we consider that the styles of past ages, admirable and beautiful as they are, were not created in any such way. The degree of perfection to which they were brought, was only attained after generations if not centuries of patient and laborious effort, n which the object to be gained was not novelty, but a beautiful and natural expression in the best materials at their hand, of the requirements of their age. And it is unquestionably in the same way only that any real progress can be made to-day in the true development of architecture.

<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

DRAWING ROOM MANTEL FOR HIS HONOR, JUDGE FRINK, VERNON, B. C.—R. MACKAY FRIPP A R I B A., ARCHITECT.

SOME WAYSIDE SKETCHES—DRAWN BY E. WILBY.



C.	A. & B. COMPETITION FOR A TOWN HOUSE AND STABLE— DESIGN SUBMITTED BY "COLONIAL," (EDWARD

LANGLEY, JR.) AWARDED THIRD PLACE.



Iron gas pipe was originally made up of gun barrels, lengths being formed by screwing the muzzle end of one into the breech end of another. After this, welded tubes of equal diameter and thickness were made, and the screw socket joint used to unite them. The seam was first welded, a few inches at a time, by inserting a rod within the heated tube and hammering the lap together. After this came an improvement which took the form of drawing the heated tube, arranged for butt welding, through a pair of half circular dies which forced the edges to unite.

