<doctype type="text">

WINNIPEG.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER).

<article title=" WINNIPEG " author="">

As the season advances rumors of 'costly" and beautiful" buildings like the flowers that bloom in the spring" fill the air with a sweet aroma, refreshing to the souls of the weary waiting who cannot but rejoice when they see the clouds are breaking, and the shadows of hard times disappearing before the rising sun of brighter days.

Plans were prepared last year for the new St. George's church, providing for a frame building on stone foundation, but the congregation have decided to build a higher basement arranged with a large Sunday school room, class, vestry and furnace rooms, and to build the superstructure of frame and brick veneer. The style to be gothic treated in a quiet manner.

The tenders of the Wesley College building were received on the 7th instant, and the amounts of some of the bulk tenders were less than $75,000 the sum appropriated for its erection. The building no doubt will be built above grade line, with Calgary stone, which is grey in color with a granite tint, very sort when first quarried, but becomes harder after being exposed to the air, is easily worked, and after allowing for the long haul, can compete successfully with our local lime stone, which is of a hard, flinty nature, and difficult to split or cut.

This country is seldom without a railroad or two looking for financial assistance from the government. and from any one else who is willing to give it. The Hudson's Bay Railroad was such a fizzle, and saddled the province with such a heavy debt, for which it has nothing to show, that the government are wisely cautions in not granting aid to any but gilt edge enterprises. The latest is the South Eastern Railroad' to run from the city to the Lake of the Woods, with a prospect of forming a connection there with another railway to Port Arthur, thus giving a line to Lake Superior independent of the C. P. R. The promotors of the S. E. are interested in the lumber mills at Rat Portage, Keewatin, &c., and they state that should this railroad be built, all the lumber mills now at the Lake of the Woods will be removed to Winnipeg, which would be very beneficial to the city in many ways, reduce the price of lumber, and provide the market for the

slabs and sawdust, which nave now to be got rid of



specially built for that purpose at a cost of about $5,000 each.

The Scotch pasttime, the roaring game of curling, which has been running' this country every winter for the past four or five years, has caused buildings of a new style to spring into existence, and while they are now put together in a rough and ready manner, no doubt if the curling fever continues and the several clubs grow richer, a higher style of architecture will be demanded which will develop and become as characteristic or the purpose as the buildings erected for other kinds or amusement.

We have here in Winnipeg, in the new Court House addition erected the past year, an excellent illustration of the old adage "great minds think alike' for the resemblance of this building to the Court House, Tacoma, W. T., is very striking, and shows how two designers miles apart can be inspired with similar ideas. The former Court House, however, is not equal to the latter either in proportion or detail, and has a squat and undignified appearance, entirely Out of harmony with its surroundings, and the purpose for which it has been erected.



PUBLICATIONS.

The " Progress of the World" of the Review of Reviews is not confined merely to a review and discussion of current political, financial, economic and sociological events. In this department of the March number, for instance, appears a report on the geographical and scientific explorations that have recently been completed, are now being carried on, accompanied by maps and portraits of the explorers.



Whites from lead should never be used in water-color drawing. In many or the drawings by the old painters patches of black occur where the high lights were introduced. This is due to the use of white lead.

The New Massey Music Hall now in course or erection in Toronto, is to be opened with a grand musical festival on the first of June. At a meeting or the architect, contractors, and the festival board, held a few days ago, it was decided that the building should be completed by the date mentioned.



ARCHITECTS and ENGINEERS

APPLY TO



THE NEW COLOR PROCESS CO.

214 ST. JAMES ST., MONTREAL,



for Instantaneous Reproductions in

Colors of Drawings and Plans.

IT WILL SAVE YOU      

NEY

 Copies on Manilla Paper

MO	4c. per sq. foot.



LABOR No recoloring by hand.



TIME We print without the aid of



ERRORS We give exact



TRACING CLOTH.

We print direct from originals on paper.

DISSATISFACTION

We guarantee uniformly perfect work.



Originals sent from a distance returned

with copies same day as received





ORNAMENTAL



Grille and Fret Work

FOR



DOORS

ARCHES

WINDOWS

AND



STORE



DECORATIONS

Any design to order or designs furnished.

































OTTER VI LIE

MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.

Otterville, Ontario.

DIAMOND TILES	







GORRUCATED IRON.

V	CRIMPED AND PRESSED



 STANDING SEAM ROOFING

for all classes of buildings.





Hayes' Pateilt_ ___

	_____	Steel Lath 

—WRITE FOR PRICES S





"Empire" Patent Shingles







METALLIC ROOFINO CO., LIMITED.

	706 Craig Street, MONTREAL.	82 Yonge Street, TORONTO.

