<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" CARVING " author="">

CARVING.

	—	F we consider for a

		moment the present

		condition of the sculptor's art, as it is exemplified in the best of

		our modern furniture,

		we cannot fail to congratulate our wood

	/	carvers upon the immense advancements

		they have made in

		

		their industry during

		the past fifty years.

		At the time of the

		great exhibition the

		handicraft of the wood

		carver had sunk to the

		lowest art level that it

		is possible to conceive.

		Now that we have

		arisen from such an

		inartistic lethargy, it is

amusing to occasionally look back into the illustrated Art Journal of the '51 Exhibition and reflect upon the many ridiculous designs that are chronicled there, as emanating from some of the then leading fashionable furnishers. If we regard such exhibits with a view of studying the contemporary carving, we can indeed discover a plethora of wonders. Sideboards carved all over with bewildering growths of convolvuli, tables with myriads of curves and cabriole legs galore, cabinets carved entirely in imitation of rustic work, and looking like glorified summer houses in suburban back gardens. Such fancies as these—unstudied, uninspired, barbarous fancies—passed current in those days for "noble anti magnificent wood carving."

That kind of sculptured work represents one bad extreme----an extreme to which we have, as yet, no fear of returning. But there is an opposite extreme, viz., forced elegance, and to this we are quickly drifting. We lack conception, freedom and individuality in our carving, by paying too great a deference to 01(1 work, and, like the sculptors of the cinque cento, who made the same error, we are beginning to err on the side of finish and beauty, and to lose thereby the very life and soul of our labor.

The tremendous differences between the carving of our National Woodwork and the carving of to-day is evident to everybody. But, unfortunately, whereas most cultured people appreciate and admire the old work, they, none the less, would

and roughest employment in the figure was regarded, in its true sense, as a quick and lasting expression of a more or less brilliant idea—not as an example of painstaking patience.

Nowadays our figure work must be perfect or it is to be condemned. And what is the result? Neither perfection or imperfection, but a worse state of affairs—the almost total absence of any attempt in our everyday furniture to introduce the figure at







































































Fig. 2.—FRENCH CARVED PANEL. PFRIOD HENRY IV.



all. This ought not to be so. The human figure is a beautiful and essential element in our carved work, and its absence is much to be deplored. The figure gives life and sentiment to our old carved work, and all the finest epochs of our industry abound with representations of the human form.

Far be it from us to advocate crudeness—the old work was crude enough in all conscience, but then the carvers of that day did the best they knew. Let us, therefore do likewise, and if our sentiments urge us to introduce the figure into our work, let us







































FIG. 1.—CARVED PANEL, EARLY GERMAN RENAISSANCE.



not accept such sculpturing from the hands of the modern craftsmen. Thus they do their utmost—unconsciously, no doubt—to discourage true originality. The most delightful scroll-work and vigorous crude figure carving would infallibly pall upon the taste of such people. That which many a connoisseur would rave about as quaint and spirited in an Elizabethan panel, would, forsooth, he blamed as barbarous if it were known to have been produced by a modern true art workman. It is this deplorable public inability to discriminate between that which is clever and original, and that which is merely a tasteful repetition, that has so effectually prevented the general introduction of the "human form divine into our modern carved work. In an old Dutch buffet, or on a piece of Jacobean panelling, the crudest

give the reins to our fancy, and not wait until we become Royal Academicians before we essay to attempt figure sculpturing at all. Our predecessors three hundred years ago did splendid work, with but indifferent—if any—knowledge of anatomy, and surely we, who have innumerable advantages, can excel them if we wish. But, alas Our very advantages are our hindrances, for if we had not the means to become so clever, by studying the work of others, we should be compelled to rely on our resources and— work—in stead of copy.

Let us glance, for instance, at the piece of old German scroll-work which is shown in fig. 1. The figure contained therein may or may not be anatomically correct—it does not matter—it is a part of the scroll, and a necessary and very interesting feature of

