<doctype type="text">the panel. How much better is this than the orthodox vase wou1d he with its everlasting acanthus scroll, even though it were Italian or Oriental London in design! For that matter. too, how unmistakably does it excel the next example that we show in fig. 2! This, however, belongs to a different period, viz., that of Henry the Fourth of France, and though it is somewhat formal design—as was usual with the work of that era—yet it is a bold and fearless effort to introduce some part of the figure at least. That life-representing head—crude and grotesque though it be—would attract the eye of an observer much more readily than the most delicately wrought but lifeless vase or patera that it would be possible to carve in its stead.

And what shall we say about the "Grotesque ?" That it is a joke in art; a mere bit of fanciful bye-play? If so, it is welcome, for it cannot fail to interest us, and, may-be, amuse us. Why should not our furniture occasionally contain some embodied piece of wit? The old buffets often did; surely we stand in need of mirth in these matter-of-fact days, much more than our jovial ancestors. The sparing introduction of the grotesque into our cabinet would be a boon. It would he an easy change to effect, too, for the grotesque in carving is very much less difficult

























































Fig. 3.—GROTESQUE HEAD, PERIOD EARLY Louis XV.



to render than the perfect figure. This will be at once apparent to any one who attempts to draw a face. For example, it will be found to be extremely difficult to make a likeness, whilst it is the easiest thing imaginable to make a burlesque, simply because anything you do is a burlesque, whilst anything you do is not necessarily a likeness. So with the grotesque. Provided that we do not set ourselves to adopt any recognized school of art in this matter, we shall soon be able to produce grotesque figures with considerable facility.

The last of our sketches shows a capital study in this direction. It is French of the early Louis Quinze period, and though this is, of course, an elaborate example, it will serve to show what a degree of animation may be awakened in our work by the introduction of the figure, even though it be grotesque.

It would he well for the carver to remember, however, that there are many styles of grotesque art, and that these are extremely varied and distinctive in their several schools. These, therefore, should either be carefully studied or studiously avoided.—Furniture and Decoration.





From the budget speech of the treasurer of the Ontario. Government it is learned that the expenditure on Government buildings during the last five years has been $3,167,656.

The value of new buildings for which permits were taken out in the city of Toronto in January of the present year, is $73600, as against $56,300 for the same month last year.

Mr. Hebert, the sculptor whose design had been accepted for the Sir John A. Macdonald Statue to be erected on Parliament Square, Ottawa, has assured the Minister of Public Works that the statue will be ready for unveiling in October.

The expenditure and contracts to date on the new Legislative buildings at Victoria, B. C., have reached the sum of $686,425, or $89,425 in excess of the limit of cost fixed by the Legislature. Is seems probable that another hundred thousand dollars at least will be required to complete the buildings.

The second annual meeting of the Association of Ontario Land Surveyors was held in Toronto, a fortnight ago. The meetings, which occupied two days, were presided over by the President of the Association, Mr. Elihu Stewart, of Collingwood. A number of interesting papers were read and a pleasant time was spent at the annual dinner. The following officers were elected for the ensuing year:—President, Mr. J. Fuller, Napanee; Vice-president, M. Gaviller, Collingwood; Council, W. Chipman, T. B. Speight,

V.	Sankey, J. McArce, Toronto; H. J. Bowman, Berlin ; J. D. Evans, Trenion; E. T. Wilkie, Almonte H. Winter, Thornyhurst; J. W. Tyrrell, Hamilton; R. Coad, Glencoc, and W. R. Burke; Ingersoll; auditors, M.

W. Hopkins, Hamilton I. Traynor, Dundalk H. B. Proudfoot, 'Toronto; T. H. Jones, Brantford; secretary, A. J. VanNostrand, Toronto.

SOME POINTS ON BUILDING.*

BY Jos. POWER.

<article title=" SOME POINTS ON BUILDING " author="Power, J.">

In taking this as a subject for a paper, I do not intend to go into any of the many points on which 1 may touch with any degree of elaborateness, from a scientific point of view but merely the most salient from a constructional point, and on which so much depends; sometimes—yes often—success or failure.

In proceeding, let us suppose we are going over the requirements of the ordinary every day building. By this I mean one with which we are all familiar. We are consulted as to a building on a certain lot or site; its purpose is named. Consider well the surroundings (if of a permanent nature), the style of design best fitted for the requirements of the proposed building; and no matter for what purpose, let it speak for itself as far as practicable. By this I mean, let your design give the ordinary passer-by an idea of its use—not by ginger-bread ornament and signs, but by character and treatment. Let a "wholesale" be a plain, heavy, substantial looking building a bank, a massive building of refined treatment a school, plain and substantial a collegiate, college or other public building, classic or of classic feeling, plain, neat and substantial ; the public building, with broad and lofty open portal, or other entrance, simple in treatment and decoration. And, above all, let a church be a church, a model of perfection, perfect in every detail and without sham.

All this you will say is a matter of cost and seldom to be realized. Admitted, to some extent, it is; but work and advise to that end, and if then it cannot be got, do the best you can, always bearing in mind that what you do must be substantial, even if perfectly plain, and if this cannot be done with credit to yourself, better have nothing to do with it. But in most cases you can advise and prevail that more money be put in it; or the building cut down so that it may be fairly well done for the amount available.

Your design being satisfactory, see that the foundation is good—if not the rock,—that your footings are good, of large stone flags and cement, piles and steel beams if necessary. The drainage being properly provided for from a sanitary standpoint, see that it is so put in, first that the intended grade and no more is taken out, or if by chance it should, that it is made up with broken stone. Do not depend on earth, even if tamped

in.	Next see that the pipes to be used are of the best salt glazed, and without blemish. laid with tarred rope of sufficient size to just fill the space or difference in size between pipe and fosset, tamped well up to the shoulder of fosset. Throw your level over them to be positive that there are no low spots; then have them well blocked under with stone, to prevent tolling. They may now be cemented. Try an occasional joint by passing your knife into the cement, to know that the rope has been tamped well to the shoulder of the fosset and be most particular that they are cemented al] round, especial attention being given to the under side, and if satisfactory they are now ready for fi]ling, which, however, should not be clone until the cement is dry ; then fill careful]y with clay well rammed to the top of the pipes.

The masonry is probably the next to require our special attention, as too many, especially when building coursing or ashlar, will give you two very poor walls where but one is required by building up the face to as much as two feet before backing it up and bonding over. This should not be allowed for at most more than one foot, and then it should be well bonded.

See that all joists have 41/2 bearing, and are cut back that not more than two inches are in the wall at top edge.

When partitions are over one another, let the studs of the upper come down on the head of the lower and thus save settlement by shrinkage of joists and breakage or cracking of plaster in angles, to some extent. Where partitions meet walls have first stud well spiked to walls.

I will now pass on to the question of plumbing, one I need hardly state of the most important to the profession to-day. In laying down your system, avoid placing the pipes against outside walls, burying them in cement or behind plaster as far as possible. The soil pipe or drain should be of medium iron, well coated inside and out, with brass cleaners, whereby to remove any chance stoppage which might take place by the introduction of foreign matter, for such things will occur, even under the best of management. Introduce fresh air, if trap can be got 12 or more feet from building, or where there are no windows over, and run pipe through and well above roof, enlarged to prevent stoppage by hoar frost. Before fixtures are set, have openings plugged and system tested by filling with water. Vent all traps with pipe of same size into standing vent. Have all fixture connections made with brass and rubber, and all lead joints properly wiped and gasketed, funnels run and caulked to cast pipes. After fixtures are set, subject the whole system to a second test of either smoke or oil of peppermint. In short, have it done in the best possible way; put in no more than what is really necessary and can be done in a thoroughly sanitary and substantial way.



Mr. Blue, of the Ontario Department of Mines has lately been inquiring into the existence of clay suitable for the manufacture of vitrified brick, and reports that there are large deposits of such clay available.

* Paper read at the fifth annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects.

