<doctype type="text">AN American contemporary says: "We have had so many applications of late for sample copies of The Southern Architect, which are unaccompanied by the stamps or other evidences of a disposition to appreciate the favor of such an accommodation, that we have been compelled to refuse all such requests. In fact the calls for samples are so numerous and regular that we suspect the sample copy fiend is trying our good nature and attempting to save the two dollars necessary to insure the regular monthly arrival of the paper." We have had a similar experience, and have satisfied ourselves that there are in the United States a large number of builders and some persons claiming to be architects who make a practice of writing to the publishers of architectural journals for free sample copies, with no intention of becoming subscribers. By this means they secure a collection of valuable illustrations and printed information at the cost of a few cents for post cards. From one individual we received at different times no less than three requests for sample copies, which confirmed our previous suspicion that a fraud was being practiced. Since then requests for free sample copies have been met with refusal unless they were accompanied by some evidence of the bona fides of the applicant. Publishers of architectural journals should refuse to be further victimized.



SINCE the ejectment by the architect of Mr. Neelon, the contractor for the new city buildings at Toronto, and the granting by the Courts of permission to the architect to proceed with the erection of the building, both parties to the dispute have been busily engaged in collecting evidence with which to substantiate their positions when Mr. Neelon's suit for damages should come up for hearing. The case, which was looked forward to with much interest owing to its novel character and the magnitude of the interests involved, came up for argument before Mr. Justice Rose at Toronto in the early part of the present month. From the number of the witnesses and the mass of evidence ready to be submitted, it appeared probable that the case would occupy several weeks, but circumstances arose which brought it to a close for the present on the fourth day, when but little evidence had been adduced. Mr. Blake, the plaintiff's counsel, raised the contention that Mr. Lennox, the architect, had not the power to dismiss the contractor without the written consent of the Court House Committee of the City Council. The proceedings were adjourned to allow the Judge to consider the point, and as a result of such consideration he decided on the following day that the architect had the power tinder the contract to dismiss the contractor. Mr. Neelon's counsel having stated that his client was averse to proceeding further with the evidence in this Court, Mr. Justice Rose dismissed the action, with costs against the plaintiff. The case will be appealed to the Chancery Divisional Court, and should the decision there prove unsatisfactory, the plaintiffs will doubtless carry it to the highest court of appeal.



WE have heard much during the last month of the sufferings of the unemployed, and the unusual extent to which lack of employment prevails. We have witnessed also the unusual sight of the principal thoroughfares of Toronto being blockaded at certain hours of the day by crowds of people waiting to have food and clothing dispensed to them by certain of the newspapers, which, judging by the manner in which their charity was heralded, were quite as anxious to attract attention to themselves as to relieve the needs of their fellow citizens. We believe that positive injury has resulted from the methods pursued by these papers. In the opinion of ministers of the leading churches and of persons connected with the numerous charitable organizations of the city, the distress existing this winter is but little greater than in former years, yet it has gone abroad to the world that our streets are thronged with people clamoring for bread, while the overdrawn pictures of want which have appeared in the newspapers have emboldened the idle and dissolute classes of the community to assume a threatening attitude. The suggestion has very properly been made, that instead of paying out large sums of money to the unemployed for snow cleaning, and such like unnecessary work, the City Council should endeavor to provide useful employment by carrying out the construction of some of the needed improvements which must be undertaken in the near future, as for example, the trunk sewer or the water tunnel recommended by the City Engineer. If

such works as these are undertaken largely with the object of relieving the wants of the unemployed, it should be with the understanding that the unions will not as in the past insist on the city paying a rate of wages equal to that which might be expected under more prosperous conditions.



THE City of Toronto is once more giving evidence of its conservatism in adhering to village practices, by attacking its officials, and especially its engineering department. The present engineer has shown immense capacity for organization and grasp of the details of the whole work of his department, to which was added the charge of the water works, with its unenviable legacy of a leaking conduit, broken connections at all points, leaky pumping wells at the pump house and numerous

·other troubles. The work of the city has never been carried on so smoothly and satisfactorily, and instead of being thankful for their lot, a few new aldermen have assailed the whole organization of the civic staff. Of the miserly savings effected in the engineer's department,—about $3,300,—over $2,000 is contributed by four officials. With a most excellent and unlimited supply of pure water at their door, an unreasonable agitation has been sprung on the Council to bring water horn Lake Simcoe. The council cannot be induced to consider the report of their own engineer which they themselves ordered him to prepare; it is at present waste paper. Lake Simcoe is the hobby of one man who seems to have completely hypnotized a section of the Council into believing and desiring to see carried into effect a scheme which will be the ruin of those who undertake it. Ten thousand horse power from Lake Simcoe to begin with, and any amount afterwards, to give power, light and heat to poor languishing Toronto, is as glibly talked about as building a head race for a flour mill. Millions of dollars of expenditure are spoken of with such levity that one is induced to believe the whole financial world is longing to help Toronto to drain Lake Simcoe, leave its 10, 000 H. P. higher and drier than Noah's Ark, and seek no return or revenue for the monies invested. It makes one tired to hear this constant agitation about Lake Simcoe water. The promoters appear to have a considerable following in the Council; let them get their friends to move for an appropriation to extend and complete the surveys made when Mr. McAlpine and Messrs. Hering and Gray were here. An expenditure of $5,000 will effect this, prepare estimates, and give the Toronto public full and reliable figures on which they can discuss intelligently the question of this source of water supply, and it will effectually settle the water supply, power, heating, aqueduct and canal schemes.



THE citizens of Toronto should feel indebted to Colonel Sweny for having suggested in the public press the construction of waterways on Toronto Island, which should afford communication between the different parts of the island by means of steam or electric launches, in preference to electric railway transit. Undoubtedly it would be possible by such means as Colonel Swney has suggested, to make of the island a most attractive and healthful resort. In detail his various suggestions appear to be in some respects inconsistent. He objects to he electric cars because, as he states, they would create noise and by conveying crowds from one Coney Island show to another, the whole place would be given up to revelry and clamor. On the other hand he suggests the making of a race course, which would become the champion course of Canada and attract thousands of visitors annually to witness the great races of professionals and amateurs. The carrying out of this suggestion would probably destroy quite as effectually as the electric cars the character of the island as "a quiet and delightful retreat where many a family flying from the city's heat may find rest in the summer days." With the scheme as a whole, however, we are in entire accord. The \World's Fair grounds at Chicago were a sufficient indication of what might be done at Toronto. We cannot agree with Colonel Sweny's statement, that "the past history of the island conclusively proves that neither the people nor its representatives are alive to the importance of the property they own." This was true as regards the island a few years ago, but the Parks and Gardens Committee of the City Council have within the last five years changed the aspect of the central portion of the island in a manner which has very materially increased its attractiveness,

