<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and by doing so have shown themselves to be alive to the possibilities of improvement. The Toronto Architectural Guild at its last meeting discussed this subject, and unanimously adopted the following resolution, which will be forwarded to the City Council: Moved by E. Burke, seconded by S. H. Townsend:

—" That the Architectural Guild respectfully urges upon the City Council the wisdom of a very careful consideration of the transportation and other problems at the island ; that we deprecate the proposed introduction of the noisy and dangerous trolley, and would advocate such a scheme as that outlined by Col. Sweny in the public prints. The artistic effects in the way of connected lagoons and wooded islands, such as were introduced at the Chicago World's Fair, are possible here on an extended scale, and we think this generation will be very remiss and lacking in breadth of view if such magnificent opportunities are not taken advantage of from the beginning. The sanitary advantage gained will also be of immense benefit. We beg to suggest a very careful consideration of the whole subject and the engagement of the best available landscape architect to advise and plan for what may be made in time a Toronto Venice ".

<article title=" AN INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION AT TORONTO " author="">

AN INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION AT TORONTO. As this number of the ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER goes to

press, our attention is called to a resolution adopted by the Toronto Board of Trade, favoring the holding of an International Exposition at Toronto a couple of years hence, and to an editorial article in the Toronto Globe in support of the project.

The space at our disposal will only permit us briefly to express the hope that immediate steps will be taken to carry out the undertaking. It would be the grandest possible advertisement for Canada, and would be the means we believe of giving a much needed impetus to immigration and business enterprise, while needed employment would be furnished to the laboring and artizan classes. The conditions are likewise most favorable to the carrying out of the scheme at the smallest possible expense. Architects and builders, who, with other classes, would be benefited, should give the enterprise their prompt and earnest support.





TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

TORONTO, March 6th, 1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Sir,—As a member of the Supply Dealers Section of the Toronto Builders' Exchange, I have to complain of the treatment which I have received at the hands of some of my fellow members. It is one of the regulations of the Exchange that members belonging to the Builders' Section who may purchase materials from members of the Dealers' Section, shall receive a certain discount off prices charged to outside builders on condition that the materials thus purchased are paid for within 30 days. Many of my fellow members to whom I have sold materials, allowing them the cash discount with the understanding that the goods would be paid for within the specified time, have failed to make payment for two, three or four months, and have then insisted on getting the benefit of the discount, notwithstanding their disregard of the terms upon which it was to be allowed, and unless their demand is complied with, I am given to understand that they will withdraw their orders from me. In view of the dull times, they well know that every dealer must be anxious to avoid loss of trade, so take advantage of this fact to repudiate the well known conditions of purchase as laid down by the Exchange.

This is a matter which the Board of Directors of the Exchange would do well to take cognizance of, as unless the members of the organization are compelled to deal fairly by one another, the benefits of membership must soon disappear.

Very truly yours,

MATERIAL MAN.





PERSONAL.



Mr. P. Lacroix, of Montreal, was a delegate at the convention of the National Association of Commissioners and Inspectors of l3uildings recently held in Boston.

The death is announced at London, Ont., of Mr. William Wales, father of the wife of the Mayor of that city. Mr. Wales, who was a native of Devonshire, Eng., was a well-known contractor, having carried on business in this line at Kingston, Ont., and having recently been engaged on the construction of the Parliament Buildings in Toronto. The deceased was in his seventy-sixth year.

Much surprise was occasioned a few days ago by the announcement that Hon. C. F. Fraser, who has occupied the office of Minister of Public Works in the Ontario Government since 1874, had tendered his resignation. Mr. Fraser has been in ill health for several years past, and on more than one occasion would have resigned his duties had not his colleagues in the Ministry prevailed upon him to continue in the position.

THERE can be but one idea with reference to the usefulness of technical schools, and we believe that the majority of the people in civilized countries hold to that idea, namely, that when managed by competent bodies of men forming the board of management, with zealous instructors, duly qualified, under them, nothing could be of greater advantage to the mechanic, anxious to obtain an education in his particular trade, which he could not possibly obtain without them. When, in addition to the facts that a technical school exists in any city, and is well governed and managed, the instruction is given absolutely free, the boon to the working man is simply immense. That a man should be able to acquire not only an insight into, but a thorough training in the science of his trade by diligent attendance three or four nights a week in a well lighted and well ventilated building, listening to the instruction given in a manner suited to his ability to grasp it, must he regarded as a vet)' valuable privilege, and men who will not take advantage of all this, must be considered drones of their class. But everything in the success of such an institution must depend upon the zeal of the board of management, and the ability of the instructors. The board of management must be composed of men who are to a greater or less degree experts in the branches they represent; they must be men who will throw themselves into the work of the institution with zeal and unflagging interest, who will carefully watch their several departments and see that those who come up for instruction are receiving all that the school is able to give. Under them must be a supervisor or head master, who is responsible for the direct management of the school, and while capable of taking occasional classes himself, must be able to know that all the other classes are well managed, that the teachers are doing a thorough work and are able to impart instruction.

The teaching staff must rot only be persons who have passed qualifying examinations and are experts in their particular lines, but they must have the faculty of teaching, which is by no means possessed by every one who may be considered an expert in any particular science. Necessarily, of course, they must have a love for teaching, and the ability to gauge the minds of those who come to them for instruction, and be readily able to grasp the meaning of the duller students who have difficulty in expressing their needs succinctly. Patience is a gift that must be possessed by all teachers, and then with a love of the subject and a desire to infuse into the students an equal love of the subject, the qualified expert will be a successful instructor.

We have in Toronto a technical school the general working of which is little known to the public. It is in its infancy, and much that such an institution desires to accomplish, is necessarily beyond the means in hand at present. But it speaks well for the school that the attendance has already become too large for the rooms now occupied, and the work done by the students such as is of a character that can be exhibited, is very creditable to the institution.

The Toronto Technical School has a board of management composed of the Mayor of the city, the chairman of the Executive Committee and three aldermen, ex officio members; two experts in technical education two stationary engineers two members of the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects one manufacturer, and five representatives of the Trades and Labor Council. Of the technical staff, the head master Mr. Duff, and one other, are B. A's., and graduates of the School of Practical Science; one other is a graduate of the same school; one is a B. A., another a B. A. and M. C., while another is a member of the Ontario Association of Architects, and another a lady, is a B. A., and holds the position of Public Analyst.

We have given these particulars because of our insistence upon the necessity of proper qualification in the instructors of a school such as the one in question. It may be said that something of the same importance must attach to teachers in all schools, but there is even a greater necessity in an institution of this kind because it is not rudimentary work that is here studied, but work that cannot be successfully carried out but by eminently qualified teachers. Mechanics, chemistry, physics, mathematics, descriptive geometry and drawing cover a wide range of technical study, both theoretical and practical, starting at a point considerably in advance of the highest grade of public school instruction and stretching forward to an indefinite grade of study in science. One of the important points for first consideration therefore must be: what shall be the highest limit of the instruction given in a particular school. This must be decided by two things first the amount of funds at disposal for the purchase of apparatus and appliances, and secondly by the requirements of the majority of the students likely to attend. There must be some limit, or the theorist might carry on his course over several years and a great deal of time would be spent in mere speculation, while in practical matters it would be a mistake to go beyond the recognized requirements of particular trades. It has been found necessary to treat in an elementary manner upon some subjects, such for instance as arithmetic and measuration. A student would profit little by the most excellent instruction in mathematics unless he had certain fluency in arithmetic, and as most students coming first to the school, have passed some years since they left the public school, their arithmetic, except in very simple matters, must necessarily be "rusty" even if they ever learned enough "at school" to enable them to take up the higher branches. Descriptive

