<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" CURRENT ARCHITECTURAL STYLES " author="Helliwell, Grant">

CURRENT ARCHITECTURAL STYLES.*

By GRANT HELLIWELL.



The title "current styles" somewhat imperfectly expresses the object of this paper. To do justice to a description of the current styles of architecture, at least in these days, would be altogether beyond the scope of a short paper, and moreover, while extremely interesting, and to a certain extent profitable, it is a question whether, in the limited time at our disposal, in a convention of architects gathered from different parts of the province, the opportunity cannot be better employed. The object, then, will be, not so much to attempt a full description of the many styles now prevalent, as to briefly review some of the more important of them; to endeavor to look beneath the surface and if possible ascertain the fundamental principles underlying architectural style, and from our investigation to deduce some conclusions as to how real progress may be made in the achievements of a profession than which there is none nobler in the realms of art or science.

The frequency with which, in matters pertaining to architectural design or buildings, the public propound to one the question

what style is it "?, would be amusing were it not so often embarrassing. It is embarrassing for two reasons. In the first place it opens up the question "what is style"?—one by no means easy to define. A thoroughly logical definition of the term is seldom attempted. Gossfried Semper says " style is the coincidence, in a work of art, with the history of its coming into reality, with all the conditions and circumstances that are causal to its origin." Another authority defines "style" as "the language in which we express our thoughts, the natural expression of our requirements in building." But for the purposes of this paper it is not necessary to go further; these two definitions are probably sufficient to convince anyone that an explanation of the term is not quite so simple as at first it may appear. In the second place, the conundrum arises, respecting the building or design in question. " Has it any style, and if so what ?" The answer to this may be more difficult than the first. True, if the building were a copy of one of the structures of ancient Greece or of one of the scarcely less famous cathedrals of the mediaeval period, it would be easy for the veriest tyro to name its style correctly. Incomparably beautiful, however, in their respective classes, as those buildings were, their exact reproduction in modern times is usually deemed a ludicrous mistake. This customs, manners and conditions generally, under which they were erected, belong to a by-gone age, and charming as such structures might he to the eye, they would, except in rare caese, wanting in two of the chief elements of the highest art, viz., by utility and truth. But for the most part the buildings on whose style we are called upon to pronounce are of a very different stamp. Erected to fill many requirements, and restricted by innumerable conditions, the average modern erection is of a complex character. In many instances, perhaps the majority, it is more than doubtful whether the building possesses any style at all. In others, the taste and skill of the designer have produced a building, having an unmistakable air of character and individuality, but of whose style, in the ordinary sense of the term we are not so certain.

In proceeding to discuss styles of architecture, while we are primarily and chiefly interested in the architecture of our own Canada, we must, without any disloyalty or self reproach, admit that while we have produced work, which, in its class, compares favorably with that of any country, we are, architecturally, overshadowed, on the one hand, by the great and wealthy nation to our south, and on the other, by the head of that mighty empire of which we are proud to form a part, and to the architecture of  these two countries let us now direct our attention.

In reviewing current architecture in England, the traditions of the past are so intimately connected with modern work, that it may not be amiss briefly to refer to the early history of the art. Beginning with the crude ideas introduced at the time of the Norman Invasion, the progress of architecture as it slowly developed into the various phases of gothic is clearly marked in the buildings which still remain as monuments of English art. \With the exit of the Tudor style a new and outside influence can be plainly discerned.

Renaissance forms appear, first of a German and Flemish type, followed later by evidences of Italian and French inspiration, culminating in that grand achievement, the pride of all England, St. Paul's cathedral. Since then the course of English architecture, at no time a particularly smooth one, has taken it through many vicissitudes. From the classic to the gothic, and from there to the renaissance again, first of one period, then of another, such has been its course. The gothic revival of the present century, ending perhaps with the erection of the London Law Courts by Street, was the last of anything approaching a uniform style. Since that time a spirit of eclecticism, the doctrine of selection, has reigned supreme. Every architect has felt free to choose this or that style as his fancy dictated, and the result has been an infinite variety of forms. This system prevails in England to-day, so that the term "current styles," as far as British architects are concerned, is a most comprehensive one. To those few men gifted with exceptional talent, this has been no particular drawback. It has developed in a special manner their individuality.  This is markedly apparent in the work of

*	Paper read at the fifth annual Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, Toronto, Jan. 17, 1893.

Norman Shaw, whose buildings, familiar to us all, delightfully charming in their scholarly picturesqueness, their freedom from conventionality, are a standing testimony to his genius, and yet they cannot be classed under the head of any known style, although possessing that quality in a strong degree. Another master in English art is his contemporary, Waterhouse, whose versatility is not less noticeable than his artistic talents. Although he has perhaps achieved his greatest successes in the Romanesque style, an illustration of which is one of the most noted of modern English buildings, the South Kensington Museum, a view of which will be shown us presently, the Manchester Assize Courts and the Town Hall in the same place, both in the gothic style, gave him a world wide celebrity, while his masterly treatment of the National Liberal Club building, is an example of his genius in renaissance art. Time forbids mention of some of the best recent work by other well known British architects, designed, for the most part, in some phase of Italian renaissance, though by no means wholly in that style. But it is an undeniable fact, that with certain few exceptions, English architecture of the last decade, shows little progress.

Interesting and instructing as it is to study the architectural types of English building art, it is with even keener interest anti greater profit that we turn our attention to prevailing styles in America, for though bound by ties of kinship and political sovereignty to the mother land, in all those conditions which affect the subject of our discussion here, we have much more in common with our near neighbors on this side the Atlantic. We have the same climate and practically the same building materials, and even in our modes of living, our methods of business and all the environments of national life, we are more closely allied to them than to our honored head. So that the consideration of current styles in the United States may apply equally to Canada, and for the purposes of this discussion we will consider both countries as one.

Any review of American architecture, apart altogether from the ancient buildings of Mexico, is necessarily brief, being of such recent beginning as almost to deny it a history.

A nation of Anglo Saxon origin, and that not so very far back, nothing worthy of the name of architecture in its buildings dates over 200 years, and until comparatively recent times it has followed so closely in the lead of England that what has been said of the latter country is quite applicable to the new land. About the time of the birth of the Republic a modified classic style prevailed, now known as the Colonial, and many of the buildings of that era still remain to testify to the chaste and simple beauty with which they were clothed. But after this a decided retrogression took place, and for the greater part of a century few if any new buildings were erected having any claim to style. It was not until the beginning of the last quarter of this century that a distinctly new era in the architecture of the western world set in. That the restless vigor and energy so characteristic of the American people, and which in every other line has forced its achievements to the front, should remain quiescent in matters architectural, was not to be expected, and about the time above mentioned the bonds and shackles of traditional art were thrown off and an advance made into new fields of effort. The progress made has been most marked. Doubtless to the late H. H. Richardson more than to any other single individual is due the credit of the appearance, not of a new style, but of a new principle in American architecture. Trained in the modern Renaissance as taught in the schools of France, he early broke free from the limits of that style, and with his strong individuality took up the study of the round arch architecture prevailing in Europe prior to the gothic era, commonly known as Romanesque, In the hands of such a master work was produced which soon attracted the attention of his contemporaries and of the public. He above all men in his generation was the bring the best example of that rare genius which can perceive and evolve the hidden beauties and possibilities of the work of past ages. Without slavishly copying, he was able to draw inspiration from every source and adapt it to the varying requirements of his art, and thus produced work which, while it bore the stamp of his own personality, challenged by its beauty and dignity, the admiration of all beholders. It is impossible to say to what degree of perfection, had he lived, he might have carried his chosen style. Apparently his mantle has not fallen on any of his successors. True, the influence of his work has been felt far more since his death than while he was amongst us. Like a tidal wave the fashion—for so we may call it—for Romanesque swept the land from ocean to ocean. Many large and attractive buildings were and are still being erected in that style. Some enthusiastic but superficial observers loudly hailed it as the long called for American style. But it was short lived. Richardson had many weak imitators, but few true followers they copied the forms, but with the underlying principles that guided the master mind, with that power of adaptation, that fullness of resource possessed by him, they were unendowed. What was the result? Buildings, said to be Romanesque, rose by the thousand all over the continent, and the noble and dignified round-arch style was deposed from the lofty throne on which its greatest exponent had placed it to a position almost of contempt. As a consequence, those who did appreciate its charms and possibilities, and who, according to the measure of their ability, were thoughtfully and successfully working out the problems committed to their hands, forsook the style entirely and sought new

