<doctype type="text">



NOTES ON RECENT ADDITIONS TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF PORTLAND CEMENT. *

By JOHN PURSER GRIFFITH.

<article title=" NOTES ON RECENT ADDITIONS TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF PORTLAND CEMENT " author="Griffith, John Purser">

IN his address to this institution five years ago thc author made the following allusion to Portland cement "The introduction of Portland cement has revolutionized the construction of marine works, and provides, when judiciously employed, the most useful cementing agent at our disposal. Cement concrete has naturally grown rapidly in favour on account of the facility with which it can he moulded into blocks or deposited in situ under water and of late years it has been used in almost every work of magnitude in sonic form or another. Recently we have been startled by accounts of serious failures of works constructed with Portland cement concrete, and what may almost be termed a panic has taken the place of previous unqualified confidence. All manner of theories have been started to explain the (deterioration of the cement. Additional tests have been suggested to detect these so-called dangerous properties, and numerous persons are to be found ready to predict the ultimate destruction of all works in which Portland cement has been used. It would bc more profitable to investigate carefully each particular failure; to trace back the history of the work, the mode of construction, the proportion of cement used, and especially the manipulation of the concrete. My own experience leads me to think that we have nothing to fear if the material is fairly treated and a reasonable amount of common sense used." These remarks referred especially to Portland cement concrete which had occurred at the Aberdeen graving dock. As the details of these failures and others of more recent date have been made public by responsible engineers, and we are not dependent on unauthenticated information, we are now at full liberty to discuss them, and any such discussion must be productive of good.

The reports of the disasters at Aberdeen produced a scare, resulting in what may he called the magnesium bogey. Chemical analysis of the disintegrated concrete showed the presence of magnesium hydrate in large quantities, and the conclusion jumped at by many engineers was that magnesia in the cement was the source of all evil. Tests were introduced to remedy this, and it was proposed, on high authority, that under no conditions was cement to contain more than 1 per cent, of magnesia. \With one stroke of the pen English engineers proposed to remove from the category of cements useful for marine works the bulk of those used in the United States of America. With one stroke of the pen English engineers propose to nullify the experience of Chatoney, Vicat and Gilmour, who maintained that cements such as the Rosendale cements, which contain large quantities of magnesia, resist the dissolving action of the sea-water better than those composed only of the silicate and aluminate of lime.

It is satisfactory to know that further research and consideration has materially modified these views, and that it is now more generally accepted that the injury has been caused by the percolation of sea-water, than to the presence of magnesia in the cement. The effect of the flow of sea-water through Portland cement concrete appears to be identical with the effect of seawater on lime mortar. This latter effect has been very fully explained by Dr. B. B. Stoney in a paper he presented to this institution many years ago " On the Action of Sea-Water on Lime Mortar," which may be found in vol. vii. of our Transactions.

The great lesson we have to learn from these failures is, that our concrete must be made impermeable. That appears to be the sum and substance of thc various discussions on the subject, with which those of us who are members of the Institution of Civil Engineers must be familiar. At the beginning of the last session a most valuable paper on Portland cement was read in London by Mr. H. K. Bamber, a chemist evidently acquainted practically with the manufacture of Portland cement. The conclusions drawn may be briefly stated as follows The cement should be very finely ground, not alone as making it an economical cement, but a safer and more reliable cement. The cement should be mixed with the full quantity of water it can take up. It was the author's privilege to have the opportunity of discussing these points with his friend the late Mr. Harry Napier Draper, who became so interested in the subject that he brought to bear on it the full powers of his cultured mind. Unwilling to approach the subject merely on information gained second-hand, he determined to manufacture Portland cement in his laboratory from its known chemical ingredients. This he succeeded in doing after several instructive failures. For our purpose it is sufficient to know that his experiments proved to him the need of subjecting the clinker to a sufficiently high heat and afterwards pulverizing it to the greatest possible extent. Mr. Draper's next step was to take a number of analyses of Portland cement which had been published. In these he found that the lime, silica, and alumina, which form the active constituents of the cement, averaged about 39 per cent. of the weight of the cement. Accepting Le Chatelier's theory, that the potentially active components of cement were tricalcic silicate and tricalcic aluminate, Mr. Draper proceeded to construct a rational formula on this theory, which would approximate to the known analysis of Portland cement. In Mr. Draper's formula lime represents 63 per cent. of the cement.



Paper read before the Institute of Civil Engineers of Ireland.

it this be true then cements containing this amount of lime could not be considered as over-limed—the lime being chemically combined. He next examined the reactions which followed mixing such a cement with water, and was able to confirm the views of Le Chatelier that by the addition of water a certain quantity of calcium hydrate was set free, though all the lime in the original cement was in a state of combination. Mr. Draper considered this freed calcium hydrate an important factor in the efficiency of cement, as it slowly combined with the siliceous sand, and also absorbed carbonic acid, forming the protective film noted by some writers. One of the most interesting points brought out by Mr. Draper's investigations was that if 89 per cent. of the cement consisted of tricalcic silicate and tricalcic aluminate, in the proportion indicated by his formula, and that the hydration reactions of Le Chatelier were correct, no less than 41 per cent. of water would be required to complete hydration. To those of us who are practically acquainted with the gauging of briquettes of neat cement, a proposition that we should use 41 per cent. by weight of water to mix the cement at first sight seems difficult to understand. We must, however, remember that Mr. Draper was referring to cement which throughout its bulk was potentially active.

Now, when we are speaking of the Portland cement of commerce, we must bear in mind that high authorities on Portland cement have agreed that the residue left after sifting cement through a sieve of 5,000 meshes per square centimetre, or 32,000 meshes per square inch, is practically inert, or at any rate sluggish in hydration. Now, in our English cements, with very few exceptions, from 30 to 50 per cent. by weight will be rejected by a sieve of this fineness. You will see, therefore, that this cement, instead of requiring 41 per cent. of water, will only demand about 20 pet cent. for mixing into biquettes. Practical experience has shown us that this is sufficient, and the rules so generally laid down in this country that cement should be mixed with the minimum quantity of water has led to this proportion of water being generally adopted and adhered to, although the grinding of cement has improved. There is abundant evidence to show that briquettes immersed in water gradually increase in weight by the additional absorption of water beyond what was used in mixing the cement. It seems more than probable that this is caused by the slow hydration of the coarser particles. This gradual hydration of the coarser particles leads to their expansion, and this expansion is accompanied by the setting up of internal stresses in the briquettes or cakes. These internal stresses neutralize or negative the tensile strength, producing either a reduction in the strength of the briquettes or cracks visible to the eye.



In making briquettes with a deficiency of water you will frequently find that a very much higher stress is obtained at the early tests than if the proper quantity of water were used ; this may be followed in later tests by a falling off in the strength of briquettes, while the briquettes mixed with an excess of water shows a large increase in strength. Much greater pressure can be exerted in putting cement into the moulds if it is in a granular condition than if it is plastic, and the high seven days' results may be due to the particles of cement being brought into closer contact when little water is used than when a larger quantity is employed. At the same time the stress set up by the hydration of the coarser particles will, of course, produce more injurious results in the dense under-watered briquettes than in those which were gauged with a large quantity of water. These points may possibly be made clearer by the following experiments with neat Portland cement, mixed with 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 per cent. of water by weight

Percentage of water by weight	20	25	30	35	40

Breaking stress per square inch,

 after 28 days, in lbs.	840	685	540	385	375

Breaking stress per square inch,

 after six months, in lbs.	804	850	630	530	515

Increase in strength per cent	—	24	26	38	37

Decrease in strength per cent	4	X	X	X	X



Such results have led some of us to think that a cement giving moderate breaking stresses at seven days and gradual increments at later periods, is a safer cement than one giving high results at seven days and little or no increase afterwards. This is a subject requiring further careful study, as there is much to he said for the contention of many German authorities, that a cement which attains at seven days 90 per cent. of its strength, at 28 days is superior to another attaining at seven days only 50 per cent. of its strength at 28 days. Free lime had been charged with most failures, due to the cracking of cement; but it seems difficult to understand how free lime could escape immediate hydration when gauged with what appeared to the eye a sufficiency of water. It has been very reasonably asked, if the slow hydration of the coarse particles is the cause of failure, how comes it that for so many years we have, with great success, used cements which were much coarser than those now in the market, and that these disasters have apparently increased as the grinding of the cement has improved? We must face this criticism, and endeavor to explain what we must admit to bc a fact. The author's belief is that the old cement-makers burnt their cement more highly than is now done, that the clinker approached more closely to a state of fusion, and that the coarse particles were so vitrified that

