<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" THE HARMONY AND FUNCTIONS OF COLOUR IN ART " author="Taylor, Andrew">

THE HARMONY AND FUNCTIONS OF COLOUR IN ART. *

BY ANDREW I. TAYLOR, A. R. 1. BA.

f he love of colour is natural to man. All savage and barbarous peoples have in common the love of bright colors. Pioneer traders and explorers in Africa and in the South Seas, knowing this, always take care to supply themselves with gaudy cloths and bright coloured beads for purposes of gifts, or of barter. A child is attracted by colour perhaps more quickly than by anything else. It is only as we emerge out of childhood whether of the individual or of the nation we become more fastidious in our harmonies of colours.

Imagine if you can all colour taken out of the world, we would still have the same beautiful shapes which are lavishly strewn around us in mountain and valley, in tree and rock. in wild flower and grass, in bird and fish and animal, but with what a difference—the light would have died out of them the whole surface of nature would be neutral tint—an ashen grey. Nature would come out in old Quaker costume. Our colour sense rejoices in the polychromatic feast continually spread before it, and there is no purer enjoyment than the contemplation of the rich colouring of nature, ever varied and ever varying with the changing year.

Do we ever stay to enquire why nature is so lavish with her beautiful colours? No doubt the colours of many of the flowers have their useful purpose, such as attracting insects and bees and humming birds, who in the beautiful ordering of nature are thus unknowingly working out its great laws. And we know that at certain periods the plumage of some birds assumes a brighter and more gorgeous hue; but after allowing for all this there is infinite beauty and variety of colour which we can only accept gratefully as the creation of a Beneficent giver to minister to our pleasure and enjoyment and gratify and delight the love implanted in us for beautiful things. There are people so utilitarian as not even to allow this, and who would fain argue that every variety of tint and shade in leaf and blade and mountain side has its direct use, and only to be justified on that ground.

As Punch jocularly but with great truth asks—" Are we to deny the existence of any good that is not visible, that is not tangible, that cannot be measured with a tape or weighed in scales?" and goes on to say—" There are people who would find the universe none the poorer had Praxiteles carved nothing more immortal than an occasional cold fowl; had Homer swept his lyre, not in commemoration of the fall of ancient Troy, but to celebrate the rise of a new soap; and had Titian lavished all his wealth of glowing colour and gorgeous hues upon the unretentive surface of some suburban pavement.' it is not for such people, however, that nature spreads her colours upon her palette, but for those who having beauty n their own natures, feel a responsive chord vibrating to that of nature around.

It seems prosaic and callous to analyze the colours and tints instead of being content to enjoy them as we see them in nature, or in some great picture, but we shall be able more intelligently to enjoy them if we understand something of the principles which underlie the harmonies of the colours, for nature has rules for her colouring as well as for her economy, and we shall be able in the measure in which we understand them, to reproduce in our homes and our own handiwork something of the same gratification and pleasing emotions which we feel in nature—often without understanding the reason for it. This knowledge I need not say has been very much neglected, with the result that we all deplore, but which might have been expected, viz., in harmonious arrangements of colour in dress, home decorations and in all our surroundings. It will be my endeavor to state some of the elementary principles underlying harmony of colour, and if time permits. attempt to show their application to our general art.

The source of all colour is light acting upon the retina of the eye; without light we can have no colour. White light was once supposed to be a primary element, but as you all know, it has long been known to be composed of a number of colours which cannot be divided into fewer colours than three, and these are therefore called the three primary colours. This was first clearly shown by Sir Isaac Newton in his solar spectrum. The reason for it may be stated thus: Although light trave1s with immense rapidity, being at about the speed of about 186,000 miles in a second, yet a sensible time is occupied in this transmission, as we know that light takes about 81/4 minutes to come from the sun to our earth. The velocity of light is also affected by the media through which it comes. For example, a beam of light made to pass through a glass prism is retarded by the different thicknesses of the glass, so that if the light, after passing through the prism be thrown on a white screen or even onto any object, a variety of colours will be obtained.

The vibrations composing white light are unequal and possess different degrees of energy the red and orange are the most powerful the green and yellow come next, and the blue and violet are the weakest of all. These coming through the medium of the atmosphere, keep together, and even passing through ordinary glass are not much affected, but in passing through a prism the weaker vibrations are more deflected out of their course than the others, while the stronger ones take the nearest way to their straight course; thus red and orange are the least refrangible rays, then come yellow and green, and blue and violet are the most refrangible. It has been found that, for example, violet light is caused by vibrations of about the 57,000 part of an inch long; as these vibrations are reduced the violet changes to a bluer light and soon to green, and then yellow and orange, until we get the uncompromising red with vibrations of about only the 39,000 part of an inch. So that, to speak more scientifically, light is simply vibrations of different intensity, and acting upon the retina of the eye, produces sensations which we call colours. The different sets of nerves of the retina respond to certain vibrations of light and produce the sensation of red, or yellow or blue. But that is not all. Natural bodies have the power to select and absorb certain of the vibrations and to reject the others; these rejected vibrations are received upon the retina and produce the colour which we ascribe to the object. There is really no original color in any object.

The splendid colors of the feathers of certain birds, as of the peacock, the lustre of beetles' wings, the sheen of mother of-pearl and certain precious stones, are only due in a very few instances to any actual coloring matter in themselves; in nearly all cases they are caused by the reflection and refraction of the rays. owing to minute inequalities and folds and marks on the surface of the feathers or shells. This has been imitated by Japanese metal workers who employ the same methods to get iridescence and variety of hue in their articles made of iron and copper. It would be going out of the scope of this paper to pursue this part of the subject further, but I have tried to indicate enough to enable you to understand what I have now to say.

Sir David Brewster's arrangement of the colors has been long accepted as correct, viz., red, blue and yellow as the three primary colours, but of late Wiinsch's and Young's theory has been taken up, adopted and advocated by men of acknowledged position in physics, such as Helmholtz Maxwell and Rood. Even they are not agreed as to the exact hues, each varying slightly, but roughly speaking it may be said that they agree on adopting red, green and violet-blue as the three primaries. There is, however, in



Paper read at a meeting of resident members of the Province - Quebec Association of Architects, at Montreal.

this selection a measure of arbitrariness, and there must be a certain liberty allowed. But to understand this aright, a distinction must be made between lights and pigments experimenting with rays of light they found that blue and yellow lights do not produce green when mixed, but they also found that blue and yellow pigments when mixed do produce green. How is this? In this way There is no actual colour in the pigments. their colour arises from the absorption of certain rays. What they do not absorb gives the colour, it is those rays we see by reflection. In Young's theory they recognize three primary colour sensations; in Brewster's we have three primary colours—a very important distinction. For a purely theoretic study of the subject of colour we should adopt Young's theory, but for our purpose and for practical study, we will follow Brewster's theory. These rays, red, blue and yellow, cannot be further divided, or as it is called decomposed. These colours or rays, however, are nut equally strong. If you wish to harmonize so that each is neutralized or destroyed, you must take them in the proportion of three parts of yellow, five of red, eight of blue, making together sixteen parts. 'these three primaries in the state of transient colours, such as for example in the colours of the prism, when recomposed, will produce white light. Any two of these colours mixed in their proportions, give what we call secondary colours. For example, three yellow and five red will produce orange, and orange will harmonize with blue, the remaining primary colour, in the proportion of 8, making 16. Also five red and eight blue will produce purple, which will harmonize with the remaining primary colour, yellow, in the proportion of 3, making 16

Also eight blue and three yellow will produce green which will harmonize with the remaining primary red in the proportion of five, making i6.

Now we have got red, blue, yellow. the three primary colours, and orange, purple and green, the three secondary colours, and we got the secondary colours by mixing two of the primary colours together.

To obtain the tertiary colours we proceed to mix two of the secondary colours together. For example, orange and purple will produce the tertiary colour Russet-brown, and will harmonize with the remaining secondary green in the proportion of 21 russet to 11 green.

Also purple and green will produce the tertiary colour olive, and will harmonize with orange in the proportion of 24 olive to 8 orange.

Also green and orange will produce the tertiary colour citrine, and will harmonize with the remaining secondary, viz., purple, in the proportion of 19 citrine to 13 purple.

We have thus got the primaries, the secondaries and the tertiaries, and you will observe that as we get to the tertiaries, the tendency is to destroy the strength of the colour, and to make them neutral, because the whole three primaries are in them.

Every colour has got its complimentary colour, that is its opposite contrasting colour, which will make it look best and most agreeable to the eye, and it is very important to know the complimentary color of each. How shall we know that? Very easily. Bear in mind that any scheme of colour is never satisfactory that has not got all the three primaries in one form or other, and this will enable you to know what is the complimentary colour or shade to any colour you may have.

Thus, take yellow, the brightest of all colour,, and nearest light—to get a harmonious scheme of colour you want the other two primaries; these are red and blue, which make purple and purple, therefore, is the complimentary of yellow, and is also almost the darkest of hues,—the contrast there. fore is as light to dark.

Again take red, which is a warm, exciting, hot colour, the other two primaries are blue and yellow. These mixed together make green, and green is the complimentary colour of red, and it is also the most soothing and quieting to the eye,—the contrast is therefore between exciting and quieting. We find this in the red flowers and green leaves and red fruits and green foliage,

Again take blue, which is the coldest colour—the other two primaries are red and yellow, which mixed together make orange, and orange is the complimentary colour of blue, and it is also the warmest colour. The contrast is between coldness and warmth, We find this in nature in the blue sky and the warm sunshine. You can prove this by a simple experiment. Take a piece of white paper and put a red spot in the middle, gaze fixedly at it for a minute in a good strong sunlight; remove or cover the red spot and you will see a green spot instead of the red, the green being the complimentary colour of the red, being made of the other two primary colours, blue and yellow.

The reason for this curious phenomenon is this: The eye tires quickly of one colour. The particular nerves excited by that colour become wearied and fatigued, and in the ratio in which this happens, so the other nerves become correspondingly excited towards the complimentary colour to that which fatigued the other nerves, and you see as I have described. As the wearied nerves recover their tone the hues blend into their proper relations again. You may take a similar experiment with the sun when low down in the sky—say at sunset—after gazing fixedly at it, you will see a purple disc, purple being the combination of red and blue, the remaining primaries after the yellow, and so with the other colors.

You will please bear in mind that each shade of colour has its complimentary, and as there are hundreds of shades, I can only give you the general principle on which the harmony of colours depends.

In making these experiments and mixing colours and shades, which I hope you will all do for yourselves, you will please bear in mind that the colours you deal with are not pure, and that it is only an approximation to the pureness that you can get, so that your experiments can never be absolutely correct, but you will get something near to it. The theory is, of course, built on pure colours as in the spectrum.

1 need not say that you will hear colors spoken of as warm or cold, and when you hear this you will know that all orange and yellows and reds are warm, and all blues, grays and the blue greens are cold, and the colours become cool as they have blue in them, and warm as they have red or yellow.

Now we will go a little further. There is what is called simultaneous contrasts of colour, and may be either contrast of depth or intensity, as when two tints are placed together, and the contrast of hue making an apparent change of colour when certain shades are put beside it. This arises from the fact that all colored bodies reflect a certain amount of their complimentary rays, and also of white light. For example, take two patterns of the same colour, the one light and the other dark, and put them together, the one will appear lighter and the other darker by contrast; and if you take two different colours of unequal intensity and put them together, you will find not only one will be lighter and the other darker, but each will be slightly affected by the complimentary colour of the other. That is the reason that colours often look different when placed on a wall with other colours than they did on the sample. You will also find that by putting two complimentary colours together they will both look fresher and richer and give the most agreeable impression ; on the other hand, if you put colours which are not complimentary together, both are injured and hurt, and a disagreeable impression is felt. For example, take red and green—both look their best, but if you put red and orange or red and purple, both will be injured.

(To be Continued.)

