<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



25 George Street, Toronto, 30th March, 1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="Smythe, Albert">

DEAR S1R,—In your last issue there appears a letter signed "Material Man," which embodies some reflections on the esprit de corps of the Builders' Exchange, and as its anonymity places each of the "supply" members under the possible imputation of its authorship, a general disclaimer may not be out of order. I have written the Secretary of the Exchange calling his attention to the misstatements in the letter. Unfortunately there is no supply section in the Exchange, and this is solely due to the attitude of such persons as "Material Man," who will not frankly approach their so-styled fellow members, but assail the Exchange generally in such anonymous wails to the public as this letter in question contains. The efforts for five years past to form an association have failed owing to the anonymous violations of such conditions as could be agreed upon, and the present anonymous violation of good taste fairly represents the difficulty of combination. Let "Material Man" materialize himself and endeavor to organize his "fellow members." This he cannot do anonymously, nor outside the limits of the Exchange.

Yours sincerely,

ALBERT E. S. SMYTHE.





Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—In the last issue of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a Material Man ' complains of not being fairly dealt with under what he terms regulations of the Builders' Exchange, and calls the attention of the Board of Directors to a matter of which I am sure they know nothing. Being a member myself, I can safely say that there are no such regulations of the Exchange, and therefore it is useless to call the Board of Directors' attention to

it.	If this " Material Man" is a member of the Supply Dealers' Section, why does he not complain to them or call on the secretary (who is ever courteous), and explain matters to him, and if he has been wronged it will surely be made right. If" Material Man" has such interest in the benefits of membership as he speaks of, he could have those interests better protected by making himself and his wants known at the Exchange than by writing "sore head" letters to the press, for even if such conditions as he refers to did exist the Board of Directors would want something more definite to work on than anonymous letters.

Yours truly,

T.	CANNON, JR.,

95 Marion Street, Toronto.

THE COURT HOUSES AT WINNIPEG MAN	AND

TACOMA, W.T.

LOMBARD STREET, WINNIPEG, MAN., March 22, 1894.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—In the March issue of your paper your Winnipeg correspondent does me infinite honor in likening my little court house in this city, costing $70,000, to the edifice in Tacoma, costing—as appears from a telegram I have this day received— upwards of $300,000.

Dear me, what a wealth of detail could have been lavished on my small effort for the other $230,000! Even its alleged squattiness could have been obviated.

To quote your correspondents own words, "great minds have the same thoughts." I thank him humbly, very humbly. for his commendation, but I very much fear that, emanating as it does in this instance from an unsuccessful competitor, his opinion is deprived of much of its value.

Trusting to your courtesy in publishing the above letter, I have the honor to remain, your obedient servant,

CHAS. H. WHEELER.



[A portion of Mr. Wheeler's letter has been omitted as being foreign to the matter under discussion, and having a tendency to arouse personalities which contributors to these columns are requested to avoid.—EDITOR C. A. AND B.]

<article title=" HOISTING MACHINERY " author="Allen">

HOISTING MACHINERY.

THERE is probably no non-productive machine about a shop that earns as much, to put the matter paradoxically, writes

J.	H. Allen in the Illustrated Carpenter and Builder, as the crane. When we see a group of men working until every muscle is strained to the very limit of its endurance in attempting to lift a heavy casting into position on a lathe or planer, all in default of a suitable hand hoist wherewith one man could do the work in one-tenth the time with one-thousandth the actual exertion, we are disposed to look upon the proprietor of that shop as being an old fogey who is so far behind the times that it is a hopeless task for him to so much as make the attempt to catch up.

There is no shop so small, no business so poor, that should not have its complement of cranes and hoists. First of all there should be the self-sustaining hoist with a capacity equal to the heaviest of the probable requirements. When we come to the cranes they may be a simple ring in the ceiling into which the hoist is to be hooked, or the elaborate travelling crane. But for the small shop there are a multitude of simple designs that can be made at a low cost and which will serve their purposes most

admirably. The most common is the straight bar, slightly curved up at the outer end, and suspended by a stay to the post, about which it swings. Old railroad iron seems to be the most suitable material for such a swinging jib. It has the advantage over the plain flat bar, in that the head and flange give it a lateral stiffness, so that it is not likely to buckle, and the unnecessary metal which it contains receives a compensation in the very low price at which it can be bought. Such a jib can be hung to a post or to the wall; the only care that need be taken is that the horizontal pull should be carefully calculated, so that it may not exceed the resistance of the wall and pull it down. It seems superfluous to call to the attention of our readers that the greater the distance between the point of attachment of the upper end of the stay and the heel of the jib, the less will be the horizontal pull on the wall.

Sometimes, however, there is no post or pillar near at hand, and the jib must be held by its own swinging post. Belts and machines may be thickly strewn around, and yet when the trolley cannot be made to serve, the swinging jib crane can usually be worked. It goes without saying that there must be some space in the floor and the ceiling above for stepping and fastening the post. So we first locate this, and then proceed to put in the longest jib that will swing over the desired arc and clear the belts. Of course, this is not long enough to pick up our work and put it where we want it; so we devise an extension jib. This can be done by building our main jib in two parts, and carrying a set of rolls flush with the bottom and top, and running our extension between the two parts, and taking the upward and downward thrusts on the rollers. If they are well put up and kept level, one will be surprised at the ease with which the heavily-loaded extension can be worked in and out, and the load swung in and around the belts, that at first sight would seem to preclude all possibility of the use of a crane.

When we pass beyond the domain of the simpler tools, it is doubtful if it will pay any proprietor to construct his own hoisting tools, unless he does it to keep his men busy in a dull season and to avoid breaking into the efficiency of his working force.

If the need arises for a peculiar construction of crane for doing a special piece of work, it is probable that someone has had the same need before, and that the shop of some crane builder will have the pattern to furnish just exactly what you want. The height of hoist, the weight to be hoisted, and the power available can all be combined, and the result will be a tool especially suited to your wants.

The first travelling crane with which we had to do was one of our own designing, and or home manufacture. Its capacity was ten tons, and its span 40 ft. A railroad shop received the benefit. It was operated by hand, it moved slowly, and the general manager thought it no good. But when he learned that with this infant the time required for putting a cylinder on the planer was dropped from an hour and a half with four men to five minutes with two he looked interested. When the time of taking an engine cab from its place and putting it on the painting scaffold was cut down from three hours to twenty minutes, he ceased to gibe at our little tool made of four by six pine sticks; and when he saw a boiler come travelling down the shop far above the impediments of the floor, he owned the tool to be a handy one, and before it had been in the shop a year, he OK'd a requisition for a power tool that would lift thirty tons and cost a very pretty penny. Such is the educational influence of small things.



WATERPROOF WALLS.

A USEEUL little brochure entitled Szerelmey and Walls," says Building News, describes the cause and cure of damp and decay in masonry. The rationale of dampness in walls is interestingly illustrated by two experiments. The proportion of water soluble in air increases with the temperature, and thus it happens that when the air is cooled, being unable to hold the water it did when it was warmer, dew or mist is formed. A damp atmosphere is really present when the air cannot hold in solution the water it contains. Then there are some substances like chloride of lime, which have a great attraction for water, and withdraw from the air the moisture it contains. Walls of absorbent materials are always damp, even in a comparatively dry air. With the varying state of the atmosphere, moisture is continually passing in and out of stone, really causing disintegration of the particles. As most of our readers know, Szerelmey's process was, after a long series o( tests, and on the report of experts—amongst them Professor Faraday, Sir Roderick Murchison, Sir Charles Barry. and others—unanimously pronounced the best, and was tried on the Houses of Parliament. The ashlar walls of the Speakers Court, to which the process was applied more than a quarter of a century ago, are in good condition. In 1875 the Szerclmey process underwent revision, and a new product, called "Szerelmay Stone Liquid No. 101 ' was introduced, and the older compositions are no longer made. By interposing a waterproof layer or coat between the wall and the source of damp, the water is arrested. An internal treatment is useless; so are substances which chemically combine with the masonry, or injure the stone. Ample evidence is accorded which shows that the liquid can be used for porous stone, brick, plaster, and similar walls. The stone liquid is laid on the outside of the wall with a common brush by any painter, and it sinks easily into the wall and waterproofs it. It is first stirred, then rubbed on, and Szerelrney's steel-wire brush is recommended. This stone liquid has now been in use for 18 years, and the reports appended numbering so, selected from scientific men, the clergy, managers or public companies, architects, builders, and painters show the efficacy of this remedy, which has been established by the test of time.

