<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER

<article title=" WINNIPEG " author="">

WINNIPEG.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

The Provincial Government have decided to erect a new Court House at Portage La Prairie, and build an addition to the jail there. Mr. George Browne, architect, has charge of the work. The buildings are to be of local brick, on stone foundation, with trimmings of Calgary stone, and heated with hot water. The present court house was erected in the early days, and is now in a very dilapidated condition as well as inconveniently situated, being at the extreme east end of the town, some distance from the business portion, owing to the utter having moved west after the fire swept the then business centre a few years since.

Building promises to be brisk in the "Portage" this summer, for besides the above buildings, there are to be erected two brick school buildings, a large store for the Hudson's Bay Company, and a post office as well as several residences. Mr. Smith Curtis is at the head of an excellent scheme for widening the water power of the Assiniboine river, and turning the useless slough into a useful lake which would make the town a favorite summer resort, and provide a delightful place of retreat for the weary worker.

The fine weather we have been enjoying the last week or two, has helped to stimulate one another into good works, or at least to project them, for parties who propose building, are now rushing their plans forward, in order to have the contracts let before there is a rise in prices, which is supposed will take place as soon as the season opens up.

If an arrangement can he made with the Dominion Government for the support and education of the deaf and dumb, of the Territories, they will he brought there and the deaf and dumb building will be enlarged to accommodate them, an appropriation of $10,000 having been made for that purpose at the last session of the Provincial Legislature.



<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

Messrs. Dunlop & Heriot, architects, have designed for St George's church in this city a new and graceful tower to he over too feet high and in the perpendicular style, detail in the early decorated style to which the church belongs.

The Hon. Mr. Nautel, Minister of Public Works for this province has instituted an action for $10,000 libel against a weekly paper of Quebec which insinuated that the expenses of his present trip to the Holy Land were being defrayed by the contractors of the Montreal Court House.

It was recently enacted by the Legislature of this province that every advocate, notary, physician, dentist, land surveyor, civil engineer, veterinary surgeon, artist, painter, musician, sculptor, and architect, practising his profession within the limits of the province, shall pay an annual tax. the amount whereof shall he that indicated in the following tariff:—if he has his principal office or place where he exercises his profession: a. In the city of Montreal or Quebec, six per cent, on the rent or annual value of such office or place ; b. In any other city or town.$6; c, In any other municipality, $3.

The following requirements for specifications for concealed incandescent wiring in houses under construction have been adopted by the Montreal Electric Club, and are recommended for use by Canadian architects

1.	All wire used must be rubber covered and equal to either Habirshaw, Grimshaw or Bishop.

2.	No gauge smaller than No. 16 B. & S. shall he allowed to he used.

3.	Wire for 52 volt current, on two wire principle, loss not to exceed two per cent.

4.	All joints to he well made and properly soldered, and shellacked, covered with a layer of rubber tape, also with an outer covering of good black friction tape.

5.	Place necessary cut outs as required by Board of Fire Underwriters rules, the same to be on slate or porcelain bases and double pole.

6.	Where wires pass through walls and floors they are to he protected by an extra covering iii the shape of a durable and moisture proof insulating material, excepting soft rubber tubing, equal in thickness to the insulation on the wire.

7.	Where wires run along ceilings and walls, they must be kept at least two and one-half inches apart; where passing through holes in the walls and flooring, each wire must have a distinct hole for itself.

8.	All speaking tubes, gas pipes, and metallic substances of like nature are to he avoided, but where it is necessary to cross same, the wires must he bridged over with wood or hard rubber tubing. If the pipe is for hot water or steam, an air space of at least 4 in. is to he allowed between wires and pipes. All wires crossing water pipes should pass over said pipes if possible or he protected from drip.

9.	Outlets for single pole switches may he left where there are not more than 8 amperes to he controlled; where there are more than this quantity the outlets must he arranged for double-poled switches.

10.	No staples or metallic fastenings will he allowed for holding wires in place.

it.	Outlets must he taped when passing through plaster.

Place outlets as follows:

The Electric Club in a circular to architects, add the following by way of suggestion

We might also suggest that electric work (even electric bells) he I)laced on a separate tender. This will not stop any reputable plumber, who does electric work, from tendering on either electric light or electric bell wiring, whilst it will stop subletting the electric bell work or electric light work, thus causing a double profit to he added to same by those plumbers who do not. The above remark we have thought in season seeing that it is customary with some architects to place electric bell and annunciator work, and sometimes electric light wiring, even, in the regular plumbers' specifications along with gas and steam fitting.





PUBLICATIONS.

The Progress of the World" of the April Review of Reviews contains a timely discussion of the question why the English game of politics is more exciting than the American game. Other topics are, the Seigniorage bill, filibustering in Congress, the outlook for bimetallism, the Wilson bill in the Senate, the Senate report on Hawaii, the triumph of the Brazilian republic. the fight against the House of Lords, the Russo-German commercial treaty. the death of Louis Kossuth, and many matters of international interest.





A siccative material is any compound which, added to linseed oil, either hot or cold, hastens its drying qualities, which are naturally slow, and renders its use in painting and varnishing practicable and efficient. Liquid drier is simply a concentrated boiled oil. The most reliable form of drier is a compound of bases having the property of several oxides and series of salts.

QUEBEC MECHANICS' LIEN ACT.

On the 8th of January last the Legislature of the Province of Quebec gave its assent to the following amendments to Chapter 46 of Victoria, relating to the privileges of builders, labourers, workmen and suppliers of materials, which are here printed for the information of contractors doing business in Quebec.—



1.	Paragraph 7 of article 2009 of the Civil Code is replaced by the following:

7.	The claim of the labourer, workman, supplier of building materials and builder (chief contractor), subject to the provisions of articles 20t3.

2.	Article 2013 of the said Code is replaced by the following articles

20i3. The labourer, workman, supplier of building materials and the builder (chief contractor) have a right of preference upon immovables, to the amount of the increased value given by the work done or materials furnished, over any other creditor except the creditor having one of the privileges mentioned in the first six paragraphs of article 2009(I) and shall further have a preference over all chirographic creditors upon the said immovables.

2013a. The privilege of the labourer, workman, supplier of the materials and builder (chief contractor) ranks as follows:

1. The labourer;

2.	The workman;

3.	The supplier;

4.	The chief contractor.

20136. '[he right of preference or privilege upon the immovable exists as follows:

1.	Without the registration of the claims in favor of the debt due the labourer, workman, supplier of materials and the builder (chief contractor), during the whole time they are occupied at the work or while such work lasts, as the case may be; and with registration, provided it he registered within the thirty days following the completion or the cessation of the work

2.	But such right of preference or privilege shall exist only for two years from the date of the registration, unless a suit he taken in the interval, or unless a longer delay for payment has been stipulated in the contract.

20t3c. The preservation of the privilege is subject to the following conditions:

1.	T he labourer and workman must give notice, in writing, or verbally before a witness, to the proprietor of the immovable, that they have not been paid for their work, for each term of payment due.

Such notice may be given by one of the employees in the name of all the labourers or workmen who are not paid.

2.	The supplier of materials shall, before delivery of the materials give notice in writing to the proprietor of the immovable, of the contracts made by him for the delivery of materials, and mention the cost thereof and the immovable for which they are intended.

3.	The sub-contractor shall, within eight days from the signing of the contracts, also inform the proprietor or the bailleur de fonds, or either of them, as the case may be, or his agents, of the contracts he has entered into with the chief contractor.

20130'. In order to meet the privileged claims of the labourer, workman and supplier of materials, the proprietor of the immovable may retain an amount equal to that which he has paid or will he called upon to pay, according to the notices he has received, as long as such claims remain unpaid.

"2013e, In the event of a difference of opinion between the creditor and the debtor with respect to the amount due, the creditor shall, without delay, inform the proprietor of the immovable, by means of a notice which shall also mention the name of the creditor, the name of the debtor, the amount claimed and the nature of the claim.

The proprietor retains the amount in dispute until notified of an amicable settlement or a judicial decision."

3.	Article 2103 of the said Code is replaced by the following articles:

2103. The privilege of the persons mentioned in article 2013 dates, in the cases mentioned in paragraph r of the article 20136, only from the registration. within the proper delay. at the registry office of the division in which is situated the immovable affected by the inscription of a notice or memorial drawn up according to form A, with a deposition of the creditors sworn to before a justice of the peace or a commissioner of the Superior Court, setting forth the nature and the amount of the claim and describing the immovable so affected.

2.	In registering such memorial, it is sufficient to mention, opposite the official number of the cadastre which describes the immovable, if the cadastre be deposited, or opposite the title of the registered deed, if the cadastre he not yet deposited, the name of the claimant and the amount due at the time the memorial is filed.

3.	The memorial shall he made out in duplicate, one copy of which shall remain in the archives of the registry office and the other be delivered to the creditor with the registrar's certificate thereon.

4.	The creditor shall, within three days from the registration of the memorial, give a written notice to the proprietor of he immovable, or to his agent if he cannot lie found.

210a. The sale to a third party by the proprietor of the immovable or his agents, or the payment of the whole or a portion of the contract price, cannot in any way affect the claims of persons who have a privilege under  article 2013, and who have complied with the requirements of articles 20130, 20136, 2013c and 2013 of this Code."

4.	All articles of the Civil Code inconsistent with the provisions of the Act are repealed.

FORM A.

Form of notice or memorial.

A.	B. (name and residence of claimant), do hereby declare that I have worked upon the immovable of (name of the proprietor), at the following works (nature of the works). (or I have supplied, if he 6e a supplier, etc., as the case may be) since (give the date); that the amount due me is (amount of the claim) ; that the immovable on which I have worked is described as follows: (Number of cadastre or description by mnetest and bonds as much as possible.)

Sworn before me, this 

	day of	(Signature) A. B.

	18	    C.D., J

		Justice of the Peace.



(in) PRIVILEGES ARTICLE 2009 of the CIVIL CODE.

no. Law costs and the expenses incurred for the common interest of the creditors.

20.	Funeral expenses, such as declared in article 2002 (that is limited to the station and means of the deceased) when the proceeds f mite movable property have not proved sufficient to pay them.

30.	The expenses of the last illness, such as declared in article 2003, and subject mo the same restriction as funeral expenses.

40.	the expenses of tilling and sowing.

50.	Assessments and rates.

6o.	Seignorial

