<doctype type="text">CORRESPONDENCE.

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must he accompanied by the name and address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]



<article title=" TORONTO INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1897" author="">

TORONTO INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1897.



400TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE DISCOVERY OF CANADA BY JOHN AND	SEBASTIAN CABOT.

<article title="400TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE DISCOVERY OF CANADA BY JOHN AND	SEBASTIAN CABOT " author="">

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND Builder.

SIR—A suggestion has been thrown out by the Board of Trade of Toronto and by some of the daily papers concerning the above subject, but in such a spiritless way as to make it appear that the prime movers had but little anticipation of a satisfactory result being realized, it has occurred to the writer that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, with its wide circulation, is a most excellent medium for arousing sympathy, if not enthusiasm, for the project, and for helping to set the ball rolling.

T here are two prime considerations in connection with any international Exposition, viz.:

1.	Probable financial cost,

2.	Probable financial return,

and these of course may he legitimately subdivided ad infinitum.

With respect to the cost of a prospective Canadian international Exposition—at the outset the fact of the Columbian Exhibition having cost upwards of $33000000 all told need not concern us in the least, either as to comparison or as to a final squelcher of the enterprise. The question simply is, are we able to produce an exhibit of creditable pretension that will pay? Let us forget for the moment the recent magnificent and unparalleled display and let us consider the approximate cost for us.

It was certainly thought in most circles that the Paris Exposition, which cost a trifle over $8,000,000, was such a tremendous success that America could scarcely hope to equal it, certainly not surpass it. But the wonder of the world was that the Columbian Exhibition not only equaled the Paris Exposition, but as far surpassed it as Paris surpassed the great exposition of 1851 .Now, surely if the centre and pivot of European arts and culture considered the expenditure of $8,000,000 sufficient to startle the world, one-third of that amount would be more than creditable to a nation of five millions or so. Again, if the total expenditure of the Columbian Exposition was in round numbers say $33,000,000, then about one-twelfth part of that would be the amount in proportion to our population. And again, if Canada should expend about the same amount as was expended by Great Britain for the initial exposition of 1851, or for some of the following international expositions, it should and would be considered a very marvelous effort, and the money would more than return to is in many ways as an advertisement alone. The amounts of comparison are as follows, viz.



One-third the cost of the Paris Exposition, '89. $2,750,000

One half the cost of Columbian Exposition, 93. 2,750,000

Cost of London Exposition, 1851	1,460,000

	Paris	1855	1,700,000

	London	1862	2.300,000

	Paris	1867	4,000,000



So that looking at either of the above examples of cost. to expend either of which amounts would be sufficient for Canada, the affair does not really assume such formidable and insuperable difficulties as one might have supposed. Take the average of the above as a basis upon which to consider what the cost of a Canadian International Exposition should be, and in round numbers the amount is $2,500, 000, and even this amount is more in comparison for us than was $33,000,000 for Chicago, for we have at least a good $1,000,000 worth of buildings and land already in shape, while Chicago had to expend over $4,000,000 for works which we do not need so much to consider, i. e.

	Dredging	$	600,000

	Electrical plant		1,000,000

	Docking		268,000

	Statuary and fountain		725,000

	Sewerage		926,000

	Railway of Illinois Central Railway tracks

	   and other Railway works		650,000

	Total	$4,169,000



and scores of other large amounts. Can this country raise the amount required? and how? and would it he worth while so to do? are the all import. ant questions. Off-hand then, suppose that

	Toronto guarantees	$	750,000

	Ontario Government		400,000

	Dominion Government		650,000

	Other Provinces		250,000

	Subscription in stock		750,000

	$2,800,000



Is there anything out of the way in such a position? The amounts are not gifts, but loans and guarantees. The stockholders would have their amounts returned in full with a dividend—- the others probably in full. Supposing the cost of maintenance, premiums, judges, &c., should he say another $1,000,000—this would make a total of $3,500,000, which with our splendid nucleus at Exhibition Park, would carry this through in triumph.

Compare for a moment the extent of ground: We have more area in acres at Industrial Park than had many of the most successful International Exhibitions. The grounds at Exhibition Park may he easily added to so as to make at least 150 acres. Paris, 1867, bad about 87 acres; Paris, t878, had about too acres; Paris. 1889, had about 173 acres; London, 1862, Paris, 1855, London, 1857, all less than 25 acres.

Supposing an exhibition to he held in 1897, the works would he in preparation for three years, and Toronto's grant spread over that number of years, or $250,000 a year. would be no heavy burden considering the substantial benefits which would accrue to the city. It can readily he perceived that the above amount would he full enough to provide magnificent and adequate accommodation. Already the live stock buildings are perhaps unequaled on the continent, and with a small expenditure can he permanently made so. The main building ought in any event to he enlarged, and this could he done with advantage by adding T shaped ends in size about 200 X 125 feet. A large and commanding Liberal Arts' Building should find place at the north limit of the park, in size about 8oo feet by say 250 or 300 feet, if the ground would allow. If all the small buildings were removed from the space north of the present main building and placed in some other part of the grounds, large new permanent Art and Horticultural buildings could he erected there to take up all the space, or nearly so. Two large buildings

ought then to he erected south of the present main building and drive having a splendid avenue or court between them of 250 feet. These large structures would he approximately—for the western one, say 450 X 150 feet, and the eastern one 450 feet square.

Enlarge the poultry and dog houses so as to he the fittest in America, or at least three times their present capacity. Remove the annex to some other portion of the grounds, sod add to it by making a part of an H shaped building and with some few other minor additions, it will readily be seen how easily and economically we may avail ourselves of our resources.

it is a matter of great importance and interest to know that 30 or 40 acres additional may at any time be added to this very attractive park at an estimated cost of from $250,000 to $300,000 by building a jetty or pier southward in continuation of Dufferin street for about 1,000 feet and continuing same at right angles eastward for 2,000 feet, then sloping the bank and partially filling in the enclosed area, making artificial lagoons and islands with fountains. the islands would preferably be parallelogram in shape, as being easily formed. The islands and piers would he shaped with cribbing. and upon t ·o of them Marine Exhibition and a permanent Aquarium, also perhaps an Electric Building, could he advantageously placed. The lay. out of the grounds as suggested, with the new water front with buildings thereon, backed in the high ground with the immense new Main Building, would make a most beautiful view from the lake.

There is really no need to fight shy of sturh an exposition, either as to considering out inability, or coat, or extent of ground required—for it must also he home in mind that while no doubt many foreign nations will exhibit, they will not desire to do so so largely in Canada as they did in the United States. Further ground might still he required for concessionaries, and this can also he obtained to good advantage and at small rental by taking a central strip 300 feet wide out of the property north of the railway tracks to King street, which could he let out as a Hive or Midway Paisance if you like, with of course special admission fees, thereby materially adding to the revenue. Access to this would he by a wide bridge over the railway tracks in line with the present main north drive.

The average attendance at Chicago and Paris was considerably over 100,000 per day. The smallest paying attendance for one day at Chicago was 10,791 the largest 729,203.

As Toronto is well situated in the line of travel we might well expect and count on an average attendance of at least one fifth of the Chicago Fair say 25.000 per day, which, with the receipts from the Midway Plaisance or Hive, and exhibition fees, &c., would give a much larger revenue than the calculated expenditure. And even if some extra expense was incurred and all the guarantee was not returned to the corporation and governments, save that the stockholders received in full with a dividend, what would it matter so long as the great result was a gain so Canada?

The arts and sciences would he stirred as by no other means; many millions would he brought into the country; manufacturers would he helped and more especially would the gain he great for the capital of Ontario. We have a magnificent country, a well governed Christian province, a beautiful city, and if all were well advertised who can doubt what a stimulus would be given to urarle.

The result of such an exhibition would not he in the nature of a boom, with the following natural collapse, but a grind stable advertisement, much in the same way as our Industrial Exhibitions, only on a vaster scale: and following Industrial Exhibitions would be enormously helped, having so much more extensive and beautified grounds to operate in. To the painstaking Directorate of the Industrial Exhibition, the Board of Trade, and all others interested, therefore, this article is humbly submitted in the hope that the agitation may be kept up until something solid is produced.

HERBERT  PAULL.



LETTER FROM THE SECRETARY OF THE

	NATIONAL ASSOCIATION	OF BUILDERS.

x66 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., April 3rd, 1894.

Editor CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—Enclosed please find list of such organizations in Canada as come within the meaning of our term "Exchange," as per my records. As to the standing and condition of these organizations I know nothing, their existence is all that comes within our statistics.



The other organizations in our records comprehend associations among architects, plumbers, plasterers, masons, carpenters, painters, lumbermen, steam and hot water fitters, electricians, etc.

I take the liberty of sending you by this mail a copy of my report to the last convention, to correct the statement in your editorial columns, clipping enclosed. You will observe by comparing your statement with my report that there is no foundation in fact upon which to base your observations. There seems to be little room for the implication that we are trying to claim affiliation from the Canadian Association. The "half dozen" you mention as being in affiliation are evidently the result of more incorrect information, as none of your exchanges are connected with our association. Yours truly,

WM. H. SAYWARD, Secretary.

The list of Canadian organizations to which Mr. Sayward refers in his letter is as follows

Builders, Contractors and Dealers Exchange of Hamilton, James and King William streets ; secretary, William Hancock. Contractors' and Builders' Association, Hamilton, Ont., secretary, C. L. Smith, 177 West avenue north. The Builders' Exchange of London, Ont., Masonic Building ; secretary, Herbert Simpson, 814 Dundas street. Montreal Contractors' Association, 99 St. James street ; secretary, A. LaPierre, 107 5. Hubert street. Contractors' and Builders' Association of Ottawa, St. Andrew's Hall, Elgin street secretary, William Northswood, 56 Rideau street. Builders' Association of Rat Portage. secretary, William R. Gerrie, Fifth and Main streets. The Builders' Exchange of Toronto, t6 Victoria street ; secretary, John L. Phillips. The Builders' Exchange of Windsor, Ont., secretary, D. Willis Mason.

Several of these organizations, we regret to say, exist in name only. They should he made to form the nucleus of a strong, active and useful Dominion Association or of associations of a provincial character.—EDITOR C. A. AND B.1

