<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



a thorough change in provisions for valuing and collecting duty on imported designs and plans. So far, the result of the operations of the customs regulations in this respect appears to have differed very widely from that which the government intended. This is a matter which concerns not only the architects, but manufacturers and supply dealers as well. Canadian architects are familiar with domestic resources for materials of all kinds, and may be depended on to specify for nothing requiring importation unless in special and unavoidable instances. The relative positions of Canadian and foreign materials and manufactures is reversed when plans and specifications are prepared outside of the Dominion. The more firmly just claims in these respects are pressed the greater will be the respect and business commanded by our own people. On these lines there is still much need for thorough organization and persistent effort.



THERE are now about one hundred and sixty men at work at the new Toronto City buildings, and the number will be increased next month to over three hunched. Mr. Lennox, the architect, predicts that the building will be completed in about three years. An electric hoisting machine, operating a group of three derricks, has recently been added to the plant. As this is perhaps the first attempt to use electricity for this class of work in Canada, the result will be looked for with interest. When steam is superseded by electricity for this purpose, as it no doubt will be in a short time, the general public will appreciate the change through the absence from the streets where large building work is in progress, of the steam, smoke and noise of the old style engines.

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS 

The examinations of 1893 held in March resulted as follows

Final Examinations.—Passed, A. E. Wells.

Second lntermediate.—Passed, J. P. Mac Laren ; conditioned,

S.	F. Smith.

First Intermediate.—Passed,C. J. Burritt, J. A. Hearnan, M. White ; conditioned, C. P. Band, J. L. Havill, C. P. Meredith, G. E. Stevenson.

<article title=" THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY " author="">THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY.

The annual assembly of the Royal Canadian Academy was held in Ottawa on the 30th day of March, and was largely attended by members and associates.

On the evening of the 29th the annual exhibition, held in the National Gallery, was opened by His Excellency the Governor-General, a large number of artists, their patrons and friends being present. The president, Mr. R. Harris, read a short address on the progress and aims of the academy, after which the assembly was addressed by His Excellency the Governor-General and the exhibition declared open.

On the forenoon of the 30th March the last meeting of the Council of the academy for the year 1693-94 was held. At this meeting Messrs. D. B. Dick, of Toronto, and J. Hammond, of St. John, N.B., who had been previously elected as members of the academy, submitted their diploma pictures—Mr. Dick the perspective drawing of the new library for the University of Toronto, and Mr. Hammond an oil painting, "Herring Boats," both pictures being then on exhibition in the gallery. These were accepted, and both gentlemen were admitted to full membership. The Council also resolved to purchase several pictures then on exhibition for presentation to the National Gallery.

The following selections were made, viz., "A Song at

Twillight," by F. S. Challener; J. L. Graham, "Across the Sea";

"St. Levan's Church, Cornwall," by F. M. Knowles ; "A

Brotles Interior," A. C. Williamson " Bass Rocks," by J. M.

Barnsley.

In the afternoon of the same day the general assembly was held, and after the reading of the reports and other routine business the meeting proceeded to the election of two painter academicians, the ballot resulting in the election of Mr. Cruikshank and Mr. Greer, of Toronto.

The following were elected as associates, namely, Franklin Brownell, Ottawa ; W. E. Atkinson, Toronto; A. C. Williamson, Toronto J. L. Graham, Montreal.

The following were elected officers for the ensuing year:

R.	Harris, Montreal, president.

A.	C. Hutchison, Montreal, vice-president.

J.	Smith, Toronto, secretary-treasurer.

H.	Langley, auditor.

The following members were declared the Council for the ensuing year :1). 13. 1)ick, J. Hammond, 0. R. Jacobi, L. R. O'Brien, T. Mower Martin, J. Griffiths, W. Raphael, T. S. Scott, A. H. Howard, F. M. Bell-Smith, A. D. Patterson, G. A. Reid.

In the evening the members and associates dined at the Russell House, and spent a very pleasant evening together.

It is generally admitted that the pictures exhibited on this occasion surpass in merit, as a whole, those of any previous

exhibitions, Great care and judgment appears to have been exercised by the Hanging Committee in making suitable selections from the large number of pictures submitted for their approval. We are pleased to know that a number of the pictures have been purchased by residents of Ottawa, who have thus greatly encouraged the artists in their labors.





ILLUSTRATIONS.

ART INSTITUTE, MOUNT ALLISON LADIES' COLLEGE, SACKVILLE,

N.B.— EDMUND BURKE, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.

THE art collection, consisting of some 400 canvasses and 100 pieces of statuary, to accommodate which this building is being erected, is a private collection gathered in St. John, N. B. It was given to the Mount Allison college at Sackville, on condition that suitable buildings be erected. The drawing and painting classes connected with the institution will also be housed in the same building, ample provision being made for a large number of pupils. The studios will he lighted by large windows facing north, while the galleries will be lighted entirely from the roof. The buildings will be faced with a light olive local stone. The decorative panels relieving the walls will be of terra cotta, with medallions bearing the names of noted painters and sculptors. The cost will be about $54,000.

DESIGN FOR A COUNTRY OR SUBURBAN HOUSE— BY "DEMOS."

The house is designed to face south, and it is assumed that the site is such that there is abundance of light and air on all sides. The ground floor comprises parlor, library, dining-room and kitchen, etc. An alcove, with fireplace, forms a feature in the library, and the verandah suggested forms a valuable addition to the house. Upstairs there are four bed-rooms and a bathroom, besides a small room which would serve for sewing or dressing room. In the attic there is ample space for three bedrooms and lumber room.

The regularity and compactness of this plan is such that the house might be heated by a hot air furnace very cheaply and effectively.

The cost of this design in execution is estimated at from $2, 500 to $3,000, varying according to local conditions.

ST. LAURENT,	ROWEN, FRANCE—FROM SKETCHES BY ANDREW T. TAYLOR, A. R. I. B.A.MONTREAL.

RELIEF ORNAMENT, AND WHERE TO USE IT—ELLIOTT

& SON, TORONTO.





THE BATTLE CEMENT WORKS AT THOROLD.

From a special Trade Edition of the St. Catharines Standard, we extract the following particulars concerning the above works, an(1 their founder and present owners :——The extensive quarries covering an extent of forty-four acres, are situated on the east side of the new canal. A steam drill is kept in operatian the whole year round, convenient tracks running from the quarries to the kilns, where the burning is done, and is then brought to the mill, situated on the old canal, where it is manufactured. Almost the first introduction of the cement manufactured by this firm was its use in the Victoria tubular bridge at Montreal. It was also used exclusively in the building of the old Welland canal and also in the new Welland canal. It was also extensively used in the construction of the great St. Clair tunnel between Port Huron and Sarnia. Forty hands altogether are employed. The mill is a three-story frame structure, fitted up with all the latest appliances necessary for carrying on the business, and is 150 X 50 feet in extent. The founder of the business, the late John Battle, was born in 1851, in the town of Ballymote, Sligo County, Ireland, coming to Canada in 1842. He settled in Thorold where he lived for half a century, lacking one year. He began life as a day laborer on the canal, but being industrious and frugal he soon accumulated sufficient to purchase a team, and so went on till he became one of the richest men in the district. The sons, Matthew, David, and James, are all natives of Thorold, where they are all highly respected. The latter gentlemen, is freely spoken of as the coming Conservative candidate for the House of Commons.





LEGAL DECISIONS.

William Knox versus Armstrong & Cook, real estate agents, was an action in which William Knox, architect, of Cleveland, formerly of the firm of Knox & Elliot, Toronto, sued in the Toronto Courts to recover $200 for plans supplied to the defendants. The defense set up was that the houses were to cost $3,000, and to he finished by Dec. 1st, 1890, the architects to receive 31/2 per cent. The plans they prepared were for houses that would cost $3,500 or $4,000. It was necessary to get new plans and the contract set tip, was rescinded by the plaintiff. The defense also put in a set off to the effect that Knox owes them on an old contract to buy two lots on Spadina avenue, in 1889, and also, that they hold an unsatisfied judgment, March 20th, 1893, for $202.30 writs which are now in the sheriffs bands. The set-off was put at $318.02. Judgment was given for the defendants.





These United States patents have been granted Hot water generator for stoves, Aleck Saunders, Goderich ; wood carving machine, Aleck Saunders and John Story, Goderich.

