<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN AARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE LATE COLONEL. STEWART.

<article title=" THE LATE COLONEL. STEWART " author="">

IT has become our painful duty to chronicle the death of Col. John Stewart, of Ottawa, the contractor for the new Toronto Drill Hall. His death, which occurred at his son's residence in Toronto, on the night of the 4th of May, was totally unexpected, being due to heart disease with which deceased had for some time been afflicted.

The subject of this notice was born at Dungiven, Londonderry County, Ireland, on the 5th January, 1835. After leaving school he learned the joiner's trade. In 1857 he emigrated to Canada, and settled in Ottawa, which, during the remainder of his life, was his home. After working at his trade for several years, he received in 1862 his first contract, which was to build a residence for the Governor-General's secretary. In 1868 he formed a partnership with Mr. Stockand, which was dissolved in 1874.



Deceased rapidly achieved a prominent position as a contractor of more than ordinary skill and integrity, and was entrusted with the carrying out of many important undertakings. Amongst these may be

of the Western block of mentioned the extension I the Dominion Parliament Buildings, the construction of the Mackenzie tower, the Supreme Court buildings, alterations on the Grenville canal, experimental farm buildings at Bran-don, Mounted Police riding school at Regina, the new Drill Hall at Toronto. Upon the latter building, now nearing completion, he was engaged, when death so suddenly closed his career.

The late Col. Stewart filled with credit to himself and advantage to the community, a number of public positions. In 1878-9 he occupied a seat as alderman in the Ottawa City Council, and was a member of the Board of Works and

other important commit __________________________________ tees. He was an ardent THE LATE Colonel

 military man, having

risen from the ranks to the position of Colonel of the Ottawa Field Battery.

Deceased was twice married, his second wife and eight children being his survivors.

The obsequies, which took place at Ottawa, were of a military character, and were also marked by many tokens, floral and otherwise, of the high esteem in which the deceased was held throughout the country. His portrait in the uniform of a Colonel of the Ottawa Field Battery, is herewith presented to our readers.



<article title=" RAISING " author="">.

There is no part of the construction of a frame building which requires more care or accuracy, says Owen B. Maginnis, than the raising of the frame, I therefore trust that my remarks on this subject will be carefully read as they will be found very applicable in practice. Placing cellar girders These will require to be lifted into the place on top of the piers built for them in the cellar, or set perfectly level and straight from end to end. Some prefer to give their girders a slight crown of say 4 inch in the entire length, and it is a wise plan, because the piers generally settle more than the outside walls. When there are posts instead of brick piers used to support the girder, the best method is to temporarily sustain the girder by uprights made of 2 x 4 joists resting on blocks on the ground below. When the super

structure is raised these can be knocked out and the permanent posts placed, resting their bottom ends on a broad flat stone, to form a base or foundation footing. If the supporting posts or piers be not placed or built until after the building is erected, then carpenters should exercise good judgment when jacking the girders up, to place them under it and not raise them so much as to strain the building, and it is always desirable to obtain the crown mentioned before. The practice of temporarily shoring the girders, and not placing the permanent supports until after the superstructure is finished, is favored by good builders, and it would be well for carpenters to know just how it should be done. Setting the sill: After the guide is in position the sills are placed on top of the cellar walls, rounding side up and hollow side out, and are very carefully fitted together at the joints and leveled throughout. The last operation can either be done by a sight level or by following the simple method I am now about to describe Place 7/8-inch blocks at intervening distances on the length of each side, also one at either end, and set a long parallel straight edge on them, also set a true level on the upper

jointed edge of the

straight edge. The sill must be wedged up, or lowered down until the air bubble in the level tube is exactly in the centre, and each piece must also be wedged up or lowered till the blocks all touch thc bottom edge of the straight edge. In all cases the whole length of the sill should hear solidly on the stone work, and it should either be bedded in mortar or made solid with chip pieces of slate, stone wedges or furrings, and these should not be inserted less than two feet apart t. Sills are generally kept back 7/8 or one inch from the face of the stone-work, to make the sheathing come flush with it, and allow the water table to project the thickness of itself (usually 1/3 or 1 3/8 inch) to keep the

 STEWART.	water off the stone.

	<article title=" STEWART " author="">Sills must be taken out

of wind, that is to say, they must be level all around, so that when the card enter sights them with his eye (the other being closed) the surfaces will show as one hue. All sill joists will require to be toenailed or spiked to draw them closer together, and the running joists should be nailed dovetail fashion. When sills are made up of two thicknesses of plank, as they sometimes are, they will need to be solidly spiked together, to form one with dovetailed nails. As some of my readers may not clearly understand what is meant by " dove-tailing " nails I will here state that a carpenter dovetails nails when he drives two with the points inclining to or from each other, so that they form, as it were, a " dovetail."

WATERPROOF CELLARS. <article title=" WATERPROOF CELLARS " author="">

A cellar can be so constructed as to be waterproof f the bottom or the floor is first covered with cement, the walls built thereon laid in cement and the exterior of the walls covered with cement.

This makes practically a watertight basin. The cement used must be the best Portland cement, one part; clean sharp sand, one part. After a cellar is built it is not so easy to make it waterproof. Still it can be done. Cover the exterior of the wall with the above cement, ditto the bottom, and work the cement in under the bottom of the wall.

If these directions are followed, you will succeed. But if cheap materials are used, and the work badly done, you will be sure to fail.

