<doctype type="text">WINNIPEG.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

<article title=" WINNIPEG " author="">

As the remarks made by your correspondent in his letter for March, re New Court House Addition, Winnipeg, together with Mr. Wheeler's letter, which appeared last month, have aroused public interest in the matter, no doubt the following paragraph, with which the Free Press, April 5th, I893, closed a long article on the subject, will prove interesting reading to your western subscribers

"Some interest is felt by the legal profession in the plans of the new court house, as well as the site. Of the plans submitted that of Geo. Browne is generally regarded as the most suitable, and it is said, should be the one selected. Influences are at work, however, in Government circles, so the Free Press is in informed, that give the loudest Government shouter the inside track. But it is regrettable that in a large and permanent addition to the architecture of the city, business methods should not prevail, and the best man and best plan be selected."

The wet weather we have been enjoying, or otherwise, has delayed building operations, which is most unfortunate for the working men, who have been looking forward to the spring work to enable them to earn something for themselves and families, after their enforced idleness during the winter months.

After much discussion the Winnipeg School Board passed a resolution last night, authorizing the Building Committee to obtain plans for an eight room school building, to be erected on the site of the present Argyle school, the latter having been found too small to accommodate the increasing number of scholars. It is an encouraging sign of the times-—the way the

infant industry" flourishes—notwithstanding high tariff, low price of wheat, and questionable freight rates. No matter where one goes, children seem to be increasing and multiplying, and the everlasting cry for "more school accommodation" is joyfully heard by all connected with the building trades, though other taxpayers are inclined to think the industry should be restricted.

The Portage la Prairie School Board have instructed Mr. Browne to prepare plans for three schools, one frame building, to contain one room; two brick buildings, one to contain two rooms, another to contain four rooms, arranged with hat and coat rooms, and heated with hot air cost $15,000.



<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">MONTREAL.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



The new building for the Bank of Toronto, at the corner of St. James' and McGill streets, has just been completed, and the owners have gone into occupation. The building occupies one of the most advantageous site in the city, and Messrs. Taylor & Gordon, the architects, are to be congratulated on having made good use of the opportunity offered by the location for the erection of an imposing and pleasing structure. The building is designed in the Romanesque style and is built of imported red sandstone. The exterior is enriched with a large amount of carving, the credit for the execution of which belongs to Messrs. Holbrook & Mollington, Toronto. The banking room is large, airy, and exceedingly well lighted. The floor is laid with mosaic. The walls, to a height of eight feet, are lined with colored marble, with which the decoration of the upper portion and ceiling is made to harmonize. A very handsome semi-circular counter, in which marble, antique brass, plate glass and grille work have been judiciously employed, is a striking feature. The wood-work is in mahogany The upper portion of the building has been suitably fitted up for office purposes.

Enquiry amongst architects, real estate dealers. etc., indicates that while the number of buildings to be erected this year will probably fall short of 1893, the amount of money to be expended is likely to equal, at least, that of former years. The new lien act will operate to check speculative building and operations by small contractors, which is not, generally speaking, regarded a misfortune. On this point Mr. Lacroix, the city building inspector, says "This enactment will result in eliminating a certain number of these contractors, who, without any care as to how they will attain their object, begin a building, not knowing if they will be able to finish it. These contractors cause endless annoyance to the proprietors, the architects, the workmen and the dealers in building materials. If this law causes them to disappear, it will assuredly be so much to its credit." Building for residence purposes will be less in extent than usual, but in character will show improvement, and will be largely confined to the west end of the city.

Some of our local architects have done very little architectural work for several years past, their services having been in demand as valuators in the case of property required to be expropriated by the city for street widening purposes. This work is said to have proved very remunerative, particularly in the case of the city's valuators. One firm of architects are said to have received in fees in one year for work of this kind not less than $20,000.

Among the important buildings to be put under construction the present season are the new Canada Life offices, a French opera house, Laval University, residence for Mr. Hugh Graham, academy at Cote St. Antoine, school building for St. Bridget's parish, and new market buildings.

The union carpenters of this city have gone on strike because of the refusal of the contractors to accede to their demand for a nine hour day at 20 cents per hour. Some of the employers have granted the demand, but the larger proportion have not. The feeling on the part of contractors to whom I have spoken on the subject is that they have less objection to paying the rate of wages asked for than to being subjected to the dictation of the unions as to what men they shall employ. In a word, they object to hand over to the unions the control of their business in this respect. As yet no serious injury has resulted from the strike, but should the difficulty continue much longer, the bricklayers will be forced to stop work. Meanwhile, the contractors are beginning to advertise for non-union workmen. If an understanding is to be arrived at, the present is therefore the most favorable opportunity, as once the places of the strikers become filled, the contractors will be in a less favorable mood to enter into negotiations for this object.



<article title=" QUEBEC " author="">

QUEBEC.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



The report of Mr. Chas. Bai1lairge, City Engineer, covering the past two years, which has recently been published, contains some information concerning the number and cost of buildings and other improvements constructed during that period, and points to the necessity for the carrying out of other works of like character in the near future.

The number of houses erected during the two years covered by the report is stated to have been not less than three hundred. The total cost of new buildings is placed at $1,841,944. The more important buildings included in this estimate of cost were referred to in detail by Mr. Baillairge in his article in your New Year Number. This estimate of cost does not include many buildings erected by builders without the supervision of an architect. The value of these is placed at $400,000 additional. As to future improvements the Council are recommended to borrow half a million dollars to be expended on street paving.. The use of granite on a concrete foundation is recommended for this purpose.

<article title=" THE MARITIME PROVINCES " author="">



THE MARITIME PROVINCES.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECI' AND BUILDER.)



For some time the manufacturing committee of the St. John Board of Trade have been endeavoring to induce some gentleman, or company of gentlemen, to erect a pulp mill within convenient proximity to the city. On behalf of the city they offer good inducements in the way of exemption from taxes for a certain period, etc. A few months ago a French gentleman, a manufacturer of pulp machinery, was in St. John. With a number of the leading citizens he visited what were considered to be the best sites for such a r. ill. He expressed himself as satisfied with the inducements offered him. Since then considerable correspondence has been carried on between the Frenchman and the committee. The former is still willing to expend some $80,000 in a mill, providing the people of this city take a certain amount of stock. The matter is pending now. There would be no difficulty in obtaining a site where a sufficient quantity of wood could be procured to last for many years.

Last summer, and, in fact, the summer before as well, the business portion of Fairville, a suburb of St. John, was destroyed by fire. The citizens are again at work erecting shops, dwellings, etc. Quite a boom is expected there this summer.

When \V. C. Van Home, president of the Canadian Pacific Railway, was in the city a few weeks ago, he was led to consider the advisability of erecting a summer hotel here. He was interviewed on the matter and expressed himself as strongly in favor of the project. He thought an hotel, if erected on very much the same plan as the C.P.R. hotel at Quebec, would not only prove a valuable acquisition to St. John, but that it would be a paying investment to all who should take stock in It. In fact, so favorable was Mr. Van Horne to the proposed scheme, that a number of sites were picked out and the probable cost computed. It was the opinion of the C.P.R. president that a building such as he should wish to see erected for the purpose would not cost less than $500,000. In the first place the hotel would occupy one of the most valuable sites in the city. Its capacity would be sufficient to accommodate one hundred guests. It would be thoroughly furnished and everything in connection carried on  modern and up-to-date principles. A number of the leading business men of the city have volunteered to take stock in the hotel to a considerable extent, and from what has recently come to hand there is every reason to believe that the scheme will not end in talk.

The numerous and expensive buildings which are being run up in Sackville, N.B., this summer has caused quite a boom.

Two new stone quarries have been opened at Westcock, near Sackville, this spring. It is said that those who are interested in the quarries at Woodpoint and vicinity are also at Westcock and endeavoring to get a branch line built to connect with the I.C.R. at Sackville. The present method of shipping the stone on scows to Sackville and from there by rail is very unsatisfactory and the new branch will meet with encouragement.

A.	H. McC,

