<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA " author="">

BRITISH COLUMBIA.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER)



THERE is very little in the way of building news to report at present as architects and builders in this province in common with those in other countries are feeling the effects of the worldwide commercial depression.

The only piece of news I can think of at present is in connection with the new post office and customs house in Victoria. Things being so quiet, the Council of the British Columbia Institute of Architects thought it would he beneficial to the provincial architects if the new public buildings were open to competition among them, and therefore on the 19th February of this year wrote to the Minister of Public Works—Hon. Y. A. Ouimet—--pointing out the advantages, etc., to be gained by such a course reminding him of the fact that for the Victoria Legislative Buildings, for which 65 plans were submitted, we had two in the first five in the Province, and it is now being carried out by a local man. This letter, by an oversight, I suppose, was never acknowledged, although it was backed by our two senators and four of the local members. The only intimation that the request has been refused is contained in the enclosed cutting which appeared in the Ottawa Correspondence of the Victoria Colonist on 1st April. The paragraph speaks for itself:— Col. Prior and Mr. Earle have been busily engaged in the departments during

this week. Both are anxious to push the officials of the Public Works department, so that a start may be made on the new public buildings at Victoria as soon as the next fiscal year commences. The architects of the department are busily at work on the plans, the application of the B.C. architects to he allowed to compete amongst themselves for the preparation of the plans and specifications having been summarily refused, as was to be expected. While, doubtless, professional men in your Province would have been glad to have had the opportunity to have made the drawings of the new buildings, when it is considered what a precedent would have been created if the request had been granted, little wonder that the Government refused it. A staff of architects, under the charge of Mr. Fuller, is kept at the department for the purpose of carrying out this kind of work. Mr. Fuller himself is one of the most competent men on the Continent of America. Against a large field of competitors he won the first premium with his plans of the present Parliament Buildings in this City, and after that beautiful building was completed Mr. Fuller was successful in gaining the first prize for his plans of the present Capitol at Albany. The fact that he was successful in securing these important prizes in his profession is conclusive proof as to his ability. Mr. Fuller has made a rough sketch of the proposed building at Victoria, which it is expected will cost from $200,000 to $250,000, hut when I spoke to him a little while ago he was then inspecting the grades of the street in the vicinity of the site before getting down to real work. The two members from your city are satisfied that the Government will put up a building which will he as much a credit to the Dominion as it will be to the city.'





<article title=" HAMILTON, ONT." author="">

HAMILTON, ONT.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCIHTECT AND BUILDER.)



The City Council have appointed Mr. John Anderson City Building Inspector, at a salary of $650 per year.

I forward to you for publication as a matter of interest to your readers in this and other cities the clauses affecting architects and contractors contained in the new Building by-law which has recently been adopted by the City Council of Hamilton.

2.	The Council shall from time to time appoint a competent, practical and discreet man to be inspector of buildings and of fire limits and private drains.

3.	The duties of the Building Inspector shall be as follows:



(a)	He shall receive and take good due care of all plans and descriptions of buildings deposited with him under the provisions of this by-law and record the same in a book to be kept in his office for that purpose, and shall keep such book properly indexed and open for inspection and reference, and issue permits in accordance with the terms of this by-law, and he shall also record in a book to be kept by him all reports and complaints made to him as Building Inspector.

(h)	He shall inspect all buildings while being erected, altered or enlarged within the City, and all scaffolding put up or used in connection therewith, and also the erections placed by the builder or contractor upon any Street, lane or alley adjacent to any such building or any obstruction or want of repair in any such street, lane or alley caused by the deposit of building material or by the carrying on of the works.

(d)	He shall inspect the drains of all buildings in the course of erection, and also all drains made or related from any buildings already erected and see that such draining is done in a thorough manner, and shall keep a record, of every inspection, and of his decision and action thereon in a book to be provided by the Corporation for that purpose, and shall make in such book a small diagram showing the location of each drain therein referred to.

(e)	He shall inspect the drains connected with or leading from or situate in any building or premises in the City of Hamilton when requested by the Medical Health Officer, or by the Sewer Committee, or the chairman thereof, to do so, and if he finds the same to be out of repair or not properly constructed, or otherwise defective, or the drains not properly trapped or ventilated, he shall notify the owner or owners thereof in writing, calling their attention thereto and calling on them to re-construct, alter or repair the same.

4.	it shall also be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the provisions of this by-law, and that he may able to (10 so in all respects, the Street Commissioner shall notify him of the intended construction or reconstruction of any pavement where conductors or gutter pipes are to he connected with the sewers under sect ion 35 of this by-law, and also of any violation which may come under his notice of the provisions of this by-law affecting the streets, sidewalks, pavements or sewers of thc city.

5.	All that part of the City of Hamilton embraced in the following limits or boundaries shall hereafter constitute and be known as the tire limits of the City of Hamilton Commencing on the westerly limit of Wentworth street at its intersection with the lands of the Grand Trunk Railway Company, thence southerly along Wentworth street to the lands of the said Company, formerly belonging to the Hamilton & Lake Erie Railway Company, thence in a northwesterly direction along the northerly limit of said lands to Young street. thence westerly along Young to Ferguson avenue, thence southerly along Ferguson avenue to the John street mountain road, thence in a southwesterly direction along said road to the point where that road is intersected by the short road leading up the mountain in a southwesterly direction from the head of John street, thence in a straight line in a northwesterly direction to Aberdeen avenue at its intersection with the James street mountain road, thence westerly along Aberdeen avenue to Locke Street,

thence northerly along Locke street to King street, thence westerly along to Dundurn street, thence northerly along Dundurn street and in continuation of the line of that street to the lands of the Grand Trunk Railway Company, thence in a straight line in a southeasterly direction to Barton street at its intersection with the east side of Oxford street, thence easterly along Barton street to Queen street, thence southerly along Queen Street to Clarence street, thence easterly along Clarence street to Hess street, thence easterly on Cannon street to Railroad street, thence northerly on Railroad street to Mulberry street, thence easterly on Mulberry street to Bay street; thence northerly on Bay street to the southern limit of the lands of the Grand Trunk Railway Company, thence easterly along the southerly limit of the lands of the said Company to the place of beginning.

6.	No person shall commence the erection of any building or part of a building, of the cost of more than $100, within the City until he shall have deposited with the Building Inspector a ground or block plan showing the level of the cellar and basement thereof with reference to the grade line of the adjoining street or streets as laid down or recorded in the office of the City Engineer, and also a description showing the materials with which the walk of the building are to he constructed, and has obtained a permit from the Building Inspector to proceed therewith. Every contractor or builder shall produce to the Building Inspector for inspection whenever required by him, the plans of any building which such contractor or builder may be erecting within the City Limits.

7.	Every building, or part of a building made, constructed or placed within the said fire limits, shall be built with outer walls of iron, stone or brick, and when such building or part of a building is built with outer walls of iron, such walls shall not be less than one eighth of an inch of iron in thickness when the outer walls are built of stone or brick, and such building or part of a building is more than one-and-a-half and less than three storeys in height, the outer walls shall be at least eight and one half inches in thickness, and when three storeys in height, the outer walls of the first and second storeys shall not be less than twelve inches in thickness and of the third story not less than eight and one-half inches in thickness, and when more than three storeys in height the outer walls of the first story shall not be less than sixteen inches in thickness and of the second storeys not less than twelve inches and of the upper storey not less than eight and one-half inches in thickness.

(a)	Every mansard roof shall for the purposes of this by-law be considered as a story, and such storey must be divided by brick or stone partition walls as hereinafter provided when such partition walls are extended to the story next below it.

(b)	Every building within such fire limits which is to be divided into one or more stores, tenements or dwellings, and whether the same is being newly constructed or is being altered or rebuilt, shall be so divided by brick or stone partition walls running from the front to the rear of such building and extending from the foundation to the full height of each partition, such partition walls to be not less than eight and one-half inches in thickness, if not extending more than three storeys in height, but if extending beyond that height, such partition walls up to and inclusive of the third storey shall be not less than twelve inches in thickness and the partition walls above the third storey shall not he less than eight and one-half inches in thickness, and all such partition walls where they divide the top storey of a building shall be continued and built up to a height of twelve inches above the roof.

(c)	Where any hall or large room is to be constructed on an tipper storey, and is to extend over two or more of such stories, tenements or dwellings, the party walls shall be carried from the foundation to the top of the floor joist of such a hall or room, and the flooring of said hall or room where passing over the tops of such partition walls shall be solidly bedded upon a half inch coating of asbestos mortar.

(d) In all cases the ends of any and all joists resting in or upon any wall or partition shall be at least four inches apart in each direction and any space intervening between the ends of such joists shall be filled with brick and mortar.

(e)	No wall or part of a wall of any tower within the City Limits shall be built upon any wooden beam or wooden girder or support.

(f)	Every elevator shaft shall be constructed with brick walls not less than eight and one-half inches in thickness, with iron doors to each opening, commencing at the lowest point reached by such elevator and extending at least five feet above the roof of the building, and thc roof of each elevator shaft shall be formed by a skylight.

8.	Any one or two storey frame building already erected may be bricked up with four-inch brick walls within said fire limits, if placed on a stone foundation.

9.	All roofed buildings within the fire limits shall be finished externally with tin, iron, zinc, copper, slate, tile or felt and gravel, or with shingles laid in hair mortar, not less than one quarter of an inch in thickness, or with shingles laid on fire-proof felt or with some other material of an incombustible nature, and no roof of any building already erected in the said fire limits shall be re-laid or re-covered except with materials herein before enumerated.

10.	Nothing herein contained shall be so constructed as to prevent the erection within the said fire limits of any building constructed of material other than with walls of iron, stone or brick, not exceeding 216 square feet in area and i6 feet in height at the highest part of the roof thereof, or to require such building to be roofed in the manner herein before directed, provided such building shall not front upon any Street; nor shall more than one such frame building be erected on the same lot or premises. No building with outer walls other than of iron, stone or brick, shall be built within the area bounded by Ferguson avenue on the east, Hunter Street on the south, Bay street on the west, and Cannon street on the north; or within the area bounded by Ferguson avenue on the west. Main street on the south, Wellington street on the east, and King William street on the north.

11.	No building or part of a building within the fire limits, other than with main walls of brick, stone or iron shall be raised, enlarged or removed

other place within the same, nor shall any such building be removed to any

into the fire limits; nor shall any wooden building within said limits which may hereafter he damaged to the extent of fifty per cent, of the value thereof be repaired or rebuilt, nor shall such building, where the damages are less than fifty per cent. of its value, be so repaired as to be raised an additional storey. or so as to occupy a greater space than before the damage thereto, but nothing herein contained shall prevent any one from putting a stone or other substantial foundation under any existing wooden building, such foundation not to be more than four feet above the established grade of the adjoining street, nor shall it prevent any one from removing a wooden building towards the rear of the lot on which it stands, provided it is not placed within two feet of the land of any adjoining owner, or of any other wooden building on the same lot or premises.

12.	Any owner or contractor who shall build or aid in the erection of any building or any part of a building within the fire limits, or shall remove or assist in removing any such building, or shall repair or assist in repairing any damaged building contrary to any provisions of this By-law, shall be subjected to the penalties hereinafter imposed.

13.	Any building or erection which may be constructed or placed in contravention of this By-law may be pulled down or removed, at the expense of

