<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the owner thereof, by or under the direction of the Building Inspector, but it shall be the duty of the inspector, before pulling down or removing such building or erection, to obtain the consent of the Market Fire and Police Committee or of the Mayor to his so doing, and to give two days' notice to the owner or builder requiring him to pull down or remove such building or erection.



14.	All public buildings, hotels, halls, theatres, factories and schools more

than two storeys in height shall be provided with two or more fire escapes, securely fastened to the outer walls of such building, hotels, halls, theatres.

factories or schools, and connected with one or more windows in each storey except the first.

16.	Every chimney within the limits shall be carried to a height of not less than six inches above the ridge or deck of any roof carried by or connected with or abutting upon the walls to which said chimney is attached, and where a chimney is used to carry away smoke or noxious vapors from any manufactory where an engine and boiler of more than twenty-horse power are used, such chimney shall not be less than seventy-five feet in height above the level of the street adjoining such manufactory, and shall be built entirely of brick, laid with good mortar.

17.	No timber shall be placed within one foot or the inside of any oven, copper still, boiler or furnace, nor within four a d a half inches of the inside of any flue.

18.	No person shall hereafter place any furnace or stove in any house or building in the city, without leaving twelve inches clear from any wood-work immediately above such furnace or stove, and nine inches from any woodwork opposite the sides of the same, and no person shall place, or maintain or use any furnace upon or over a wooden floor unless there is immediately underneath the furnace and extending a distance of four inches on each side beyond the outer walls of such furnace a bed of concrete not less than six inches laid in mortar, and there is also an air space of at least three inches between the furnace and such bed.

(a)	All open fireplaces or grates shall have the hearth laid upon trimmer arches of brick or upon iron girders.



19.	No pipe or funnel conveying steam or hot air shall be fixed next any public street or highway on the front of any building, nor shall any exhaust steam pipes be allowed to enter any sewer, nor shall any funnel, pipe or flue for conveying fire or smoke be fixed on the inside of any building nearer than twelve inches to the face of any timbers or roofs, ceilings or partitions; nor shall any such funnel, pipe or flue pass through any timber framing, or partition of wood, or wood or lime, or through any wooden floor, in any house, outhouse, fence or building whatever, within the said City, unless there shall he a space of at least six inches clear between the said funnel. pipe or flue and such framing, partition or floor, and unless the same shall pass through a chimney of stone, or brick or mortar, or shall be encircled by a rim of solid stone, or brick or metal, not less than three inches wide, and equal in thickness to the full finished thickness of the framing through which such pipe shall pass.

24.	When any building. buildings or scaffolding in course of erection within the City limits shall be considered unsafe by the Building Inspector, he shall at once notify the owner, contractor or agent to make the same safe and secure, and every person notified, who fails within twenty-four hours to comply with such notice, shall he subjected to all the penalties of this Bylaw.

27.	No person shall deposit or place in any public Street, land or alley in thc city any material to be used in the erection of any new building, or the repair or alteration of any old building, at a cost of over $100, until a plan and description in accordance with the requirements of section 6 of this Bylaw have been deposited with the Building Inspector, and such person has obtained from the inspector a permit in writing in the form appended to this by-law for the placing of such material in such street, lane or alley, and in all cases where such plan and description have been so deposited, and it is necessary to use any portion of such public street, lane or alley, for the placing of such material, the Building Inspector shall give a permit in the form appended to this By-law.

28.	No person shall, either personally or through any one acting for him or with his authority, deposit or place any building material in or upon any public street, lane or alley within the limits of the city, except for the purpose of building or repairing, and in every case such building material shall be so placed as not obstruct the surface drainage of such public street, lane or alley, or the free use of any public hydrants. or to occupy more than is necessary of such public street, lane or alley, and in no case more than one-third the width thereof in that portion of the city bounded by Catharine, Hunter, Bay, and Cannon streets, and in that part of King street between Catharine and Wellington streets, no more than one-half thereof in any other part of the city, the space so occupied not to extend along such street, lane or alley, further than the frontage or depth of the lot so being built upon except that it may extend in front of the lot on either side, so long as the occupant of such adjoining lot may consent thereto; provided always that f the owner or tenant of the real estate on the opposite side of the street, lane or alley shall require at the same time to use any portion of the street, lane or alley for the deposit of building material, then, in such case each party shall he restricted to use one-fourth of such street, lane or alley instead of one-third as aforesaid in that portion of the city bounded by Catharine, Hunter, Bay and Cannon streets, and in that part of King street between Catharine and Wellington streets, and to the use of one-third of such street instead on one-half thereof in any other part of the city, but every lane or alley must be kept open for traffic to a width of not less than eight feet, and such material shall not in any case be allowed to remain in any public street, lane or alley, for any longer time than may be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work for which such building material is being used,



29.	Every person who shall deposit or place any building material upon any public street for any of the purposes hereinafter mentioned in that part of the city bounded by Catherine, Hunter, Bay and Cannon streets, or in that part of King street between Catherine and Wellington streets, shall. while any part of the material remains upon such street, enclose and keep enclosed the ground thereby occupied with a close board fence of a uniform height of not less than six feet, the public sidewalk to be left clear in all cases where it is not necessary to occupy it, and to be roofed over, wherever necessary, at a height of not less than eight feet above the level of the sidewalk with two thicknesses of one inch boards, and where it is necessary to occupy the sidewalk with building material, a plank sidewalk three feet wide shall be made by the person depositing the building material, such sidewalk to be made immediately outside of the said fence, and the ground covered thereby shall be reckoned as part of the space which the person depositing the building material is allowed to occupy.

30.	Every person who shall deposit or place any building material upon any public street for any of the purposes hereinberore mentioned in any part of the city other than that portion thereof bounded by Catherine, Hunter, Bay and Cannon streets, or that part of King street between Catherine and Wellington streets, shall, while any part of the material remains upon such

Street, enclose and enclosed the ground occupied thereby with a board fence at each end of sufficient height and strength to fully protect the public from injury or danger therefrom, and if the public sidewalk shall be enclosed within such fences, he shall make a sidewalk three feet wide immediately outside of said enclosure, and the ground covered by such sidewalk shall be reckoned as part of the space which the person depositing the building material is allowed to occupy.

31.	The fence, roof and sidewalk mentioned in the preceding paragraphs of this section shall be removed by the person by or for whom they were erected as soon as the building material enclosed thereby has been used or removed, and he shall also thereupon put the street and sidewalk wheresuch material has been deposited in as good repair as it was before such material was placed thereon.

32.	Whenever any person or persons, whether contractors or proprietors, shall be engaged in the erection or repairing of any building or other structure whatever within this city, and shall cause or permit any building material to be placed on any public street, lane or alley in the said city, and whenever any person or persons who shall be engaged in constructing any sewer or laying any gas, water or other pipes or conductors, in or through any of the streets, lanes, alleys, highways, sidewalks or other public places in said city where persons pass and repass, whether by appointment of the city or its agents, or its contractors, or otherwise, it shall be the duty of all such persons to protect the public from injury therefrom by placing a sufficient number of red lights upon such materials, rubbish, goods, wares and merchandise, heaps, piles, excavatious or any other thing so caused or permitted by them to be or remain in or at any of the places above mentioned, and in such manner as to enable the same to be distinctly seen by all passers-by and to continue such lights from dusk till daylight, during every night in which any such obstructions are allowed to remain in or at such place, and if such materials or obstructions are enclosed by a fence such lights shall be put on or above the fence, and no person shall, without the consent of the person or persons placing such lights, put out, remove or obstruct the same, or any of them, between dusk and daylight.

33.	No person shall allow building material of any kind under his control to remain in any public street, lane or alley after dark without being closely piled, and being also sufficiently lighted in the manner hereinbefore required, or to remain in any public street, lane or alley, in any other manner or for any other purpose, or for any longer time than is permitted by this by-law, nor shall any person put any fence or obstruction or allow any fence or obstruction under his control to remain in any public street, lane or alley, in any other manner or for any other purpose, or for any longer time than is permitted by the provisions of this by-law.

35.	No owner or occupant of any building shall place or construct, or authorize the placing or construction of any eavestrough, conductor, water-pipe or glitter pipe so as to permit or cause the water from the roof of such building to escape upon, flow over or run across or upon any public sidewalk, and the owners of buildings hereafter erected or built shall connect all conductors or gutter pipes upon that part of the building abutting upon any street with the sewer upon such street, if any there be, and whenever the pavement upon any street, not being a wooden sidewalk, is being constructed or reconstructed, the owners of all buildings abutting upon the street shall connect with the sewer, if any, upon such street every conductor, water pipe or gutter pipe, the water from which would otherwise flow over or upon such pavement,

36.	No porch, or bay window, or steps, or other structure shall encroach upon or extend over the line of any street or alleyway.

38, Before any part of a private drain or sewer laid or constructed in or from any building or buildings in the City of Hamilton shall be covered up, or enclosed, or hidden from view, it shall be the duty of the drain layer, or other person or persons having charge of the laying or construction of such drain or sewer, to give notice in writing to the Building Inspector, or at his office, that such drain or sewer is ready for inspection by him, and he shall thereupon. without delay, inspect the same, and it shall he unlawful for any drain layer or other person or persons to cover up, or enclose, or hide from view any part of such drain or sewer until the Building Inspector has approved of the same, except in cases where from the presence of quicksand or from the nature of the soil it is impossible to keep the drain or sewer open for inspection.

(a)	No brick or wooden drain shall be allowed within any building, but all drains within any building shall be of heavy cast iron pipe or of salt-glazed vitrified sewer pipe. Cast iron pipe when used within any building shall be oil finished inside and outside, with joints caulked with oakurn and molten lead. All cast iron pipe when laid beneath the surface within any building, shall be not less than one-third of an inch thick. Vitrified sewer pipes when laid within any building shall be of the make known as double strength, and shall be of a thickness of not less than one-tenth the diameter of the pipe the flange shall be not less than one and three-quarter inches deep all flanges shall be carefully filled with the best Portland cement. The upper surface of any sewer pipe shall be not less than four inches below the foundation of any wall under which it passes.

39.	If on examination of any private drain or sewer it is found that the same is out of repair, or is not properly trapped or ventilated, or is in a condition that is likely to be dangerous to health, the Building Inspector shall give notice in writing to that effect to the owner of the premises with which such drain or sewer is connected, and if for thirty days after receipt of such notice such owner or owners shall have refused or neglected to make all proper repairs or alterations he or they shall be liable to the penalty imposed by this by-law, and such penalty may be imposed for every day after the expiration of thirty days that such refusal or neglect shall continue.

41.	Any person or persons guilty of a breach of any of the provisions of this by-law shall, for every such breach be subject to the penalties imposed by chapter seventy-one of the Consolidated By-laws of this City.





The management of the Toronto Technical School have decided that the drawings made by the students of that institution should be exhibited at the Toronto Industrial Exhibition.

The Grand Trunk Railway Company against whom the courts recently gave a verdict for $3.500 in a suit brought by Mrs. Dr. Oldright, for injuries sustained by falling into an excavation at the new Union Station, will now fight the matter out with the contractor, Mr. McDermid. Mr. Justice Street in the previous case expressed the opinion that the contractor was not liable for the -accident.

The Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, have elected officers for the ensuing year as follows—President, A. E. Blackwood; Vice-President, J. Armstrong; Recording Secretary, J. C. King; Librarian, F. H. Guernsey; Corresponding Secretary, F. J. Robinson Treasurer, T. D. Wright Fourth Year Representative, R. H. Angus; Third Year Representative. R. J. Campbell Second Year Representative, E. P. Lea; Representatives on Varsity staff, Editor, J. E. Moore; Business Manager, E. W. Macpherson.

