<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



CORRESPONDENCE. _______

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, nut necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]

<article title=" THE NECESSITY FOR A CANADIAN SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE " author="">



THE NECESSITY FOR A CANADIAN SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE.

MONTREAL, May 3,1894.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



THE Province of Quebec Association of Architects and the Ontario Association are endeavoring to do good work in the  face of the craze for Americanism that has been the rage in Canada for a few years back. They have formed associations for the culture of artistic architecture, and especially aim at courses for the students, and only wait the munificence of some of Montreal's benefactors, who have been so liberal to the other arts. We understand that space is available in the applied science department at McGill, and only requires the appointment of competent professors to start a school of architecture equal to Cornell or the Boston school. If this could be accomplished, our young men need not seek architectural training in the United States. This, I contend, is the root of all the evil. How can it be otherwise, as is rightly argued by wealthy capitalists, who seek the latest and most advanced ideas in art and architecture. A school of architecture would place all the exalted ideas, present and past, before the student's mind. This eye would be trained to the beautiful in art, his mind would be stored with the best of all the ancient examples, the theory, the styles, the proportion, the strength, construction, designing, and correct and artistic principles would be instilled as the alphabet is in a child—never to be forgotten. Everything that is pure and noble in architecture would become a part of every student of ability, and in obtaining his diploma the public would he assured that he at least knew something about architecture, and that it would be unnecessary to go to foreign countries for taste and ability. The case is now deplorable. All our large and expensive buildings are given to Americans, and to some without this special training. And what has been the result? In our own city we have examples of the failures in design and construction. The Y.M.C.A. is in a deplorable state, and in a few years may become a complete wreck. Other examples in Toronto are fully as bad, and in the face of this, still our Canadian people will persist in employing this foreign talent. The latest insult our Canadian architects have had to submit to is from the Canada Life Assurance Co., a purely Canadian company! making its revenue out of Canadians, its chiefs Canadians, and yet it employs an American, and gives him carte blanche as to expense -—some $400,000—to spend on a comparatively small building. A Canadian would have been asked to build this palace with $130,000, at most, and comparisons would be made with American buildings costing half a million.

This is not all. This new building is to be erected along. side the Temple Building, and on a mean technicality the Trustees of the latter building are asked to take down the rear portion of the party wall, the claim being that it was not according to law, while they acknowledge that if it was, it would still be insufficient for this new fire proof building, which is to be three stories higher than the Temple.

They appear to be using all the smart dodges they can invent to misrepresent the actual thickness and strength of the wall, and try to induce the City Inspector to condemn said wall, but thanks to the City Inspector's practical and extended knowledge, he refused to do this, and states that the wall is good and sufficient for the Temple, it having stood without a hair's breadth of settlement, and remains just as it was built, five years ago.

For a wealthy Canadian company to allow itself to be placed in such a doubtful position is not to its credit. The City Inspector, when he granted his certificate to the Trustees of the Temple building, knew what he was doing, as is amply proved by the stability of the wall. He knew full well that the lower part, 2 ft. thick for two stories and sixteen and then 1 ft. of an old wall, thoroughly well built, with the best l 1/2 thick brick and good mortar, equal to cement, was as good as a new wall 4 in. thicker, and so would any practical architect decide, with the exception of an autocrat American, in whose hands our Canadian companies appear as so many puppets.

If, as I said before, our young men were thoroughly trained, our Canadian public would have the guarantee that all receiving the diploma would at least be men of knowledge in the profession, and would attain as high a standing before all the world as do our doctors and lawyers.

Canadian.





LEGAL.

The Supreme Court of the United States has decided that where carpenters are employed in a building and no notification of the fact is given by the owner to the insurance companies holding risks on the building, as provided for in the conditions of the policy, the validity of the policy is thereby rendered void.



Mr. C. R. S. Dinnick has lately added to his brick making plant at Toronto Junction a wire cutting brick machine with cable and die. A similar machine has been purchased by the Burlington Pressed Brick Co., Freeman, Ont.,

ARCHITECTURE AT THE MONTREAL ART GALLERY.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURE AT THE MONTREAL ART GALLERY " author="">

SIR,- -The annual spring exhibition of oil and water colors with the usual adjunct of a few architectural drawings is now the chief attraction at the art gallery, and it may be said that the exhibition as a whole, compares favorably with those of former years.

To an architect an exhibition of this character should prove particularly interesting, and the idea of combining an exhibition of architectural drawings in one which includes other works of art, is about the only way at present to advance the cause of good architecture in a city like Montreal, for the chances are that an exhibition that was purely architectural in its character, would very likely prove a failure, for the reason that the public for the most part does not as yet regard architecture as an art, and what is worse, thinks that an architect's calling is one that can be equally well filled by a novice, as by an educated practitioner.

It is not the intention of this article to enter upon a detailed criticism of the drawings on exhibition, but it is my firm belief that an exhibition of architectural drawings is valtieless as a means of educating the public 10 know what is good and what is bad without fair and just criticism. Our architects as well as the public should be willing to invite the criticism of their work by those who are competent to judge, as such criticism not only points out to us our errors which we ourselves are only too apt to overlook, but it tends to broaden our ideas and incite us to make still greater efforts to improve the quality of our works, which ought to be the great object of every architect who has the cause of good architecture at heart. Any one who has read the comments in our daily papers on the exhibition will find that the works of our local artists for the most part have received their fair share of criticism, but scarcely a passing notice is given to the architectural drawings. Why is this? Is it because our local art critics think that an architectural design is something outside the sphere of art, or is it because they are afraid to take up the matter owing to lack of knowledge? If it is owing to the latter, what a lamentable state of affairs then exists, and which only can he rectified by time and proper training.

A knowledge of art is a very excellent and a most desirable acquisition to one's education, and good art has always exercised an elevating and refining influence upon individuals as  well as nations, and as we are a very ambitions people, and wish to be considered a refined and cultured people as well, it is only natural and proper that we should patronize art. But in order to become an artistic people in the fullest sense of the word we must be educated in art, for, unfortunately, although we are lovers of the beautiful, we are not naturally an artistic people; we look altogether too much at the utilitarian side of things, thinking that as long as anything answers its purpose it dues not matter whether it pleases the eye or not. It is this state of affairs that must be remedied, and the only way to bring about the much desired reform is by educating the public. Of all the arts that we should know something about, it would seem only natural that architecture, that art above all others, is the one where we should make the starting point, for the reason that it is an art that had its beginning before all other arts, and one that administers most largely to our comforts.

Buildings that are well designed and beautiful in proportion and detail are the surest evidence of a nation's wealth and culture, and have been so from time immemorial.

How this much desired change is to be brought about is an important question, but one way of doing it would be to have architecture taught in our public schools, and perhaps some day in the near future some of our wealthy citizens may see their way clear to establish a school of architecture in connection with one of our great collegiate institutions where those who wish to practice the architectural profession can receive the proper training. Then, and not until then, will architectural art assume the position among the arts that it should, and greater inducements will be given members of the profession to exhibit their work when they feel that their efforts will be appreciated by the public.

ARCH ITECT.



 RECENT CANAD IAN PATENTS.

A patent has been granted to Mr. A. Wilford, Tod morden Ont., for a brick kiln, comprising in a continuous kiln, a series of independent adjacent chambers with horizontal walls between and the chambers connected to each other by horizontal passages, and each chamber being provided with draft openings to supply a current of atmospheric air to the fire within, means for supplying fuel to the fire, a flue for conveying the heated air from one chamber to another, etc.

H. Johnas Johanson and Bertrand Harris Short, of Vancouver, have patented a paint for iron, etc., composed of tar, salt, carbon bi-sulphur, benzine refined and paraffine cake.

John Geo. Heilig, Hamilton, Ont., has patented a ladder shelf scaffolding.

A patent for a sash fastener has been granted to Mr. L. Eve-land and Alonzo Herrick, of Port Stanley, Ont.

Robt. Sampson, Quebec, has secured a patent for a plumber's test pump.

