<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION " author="">

CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION. *

ON account of the small an(I very uncertain tensile strength of ordinary concrete it has appeared to he entirely unadapted for horizontal beams of floors or any parts of a structure subject to other than compressive force, nor did it appear a hopeful field for investigation and experiment. However, many efforts have been made during the past 20 years to unite the tensile strength of iron with the compressive strength of concrete in such a manner as to secure the whole value of each material for its respective position. These experiments demonstrated many years ago the feasibility of the union, but the methods were more or less complicated, and wasteful of the more expensive material, iron, for which reason little use was made by the discovery until Mr. Earnest L Ransome, of our city, invented and applied plain, square, cold, twisted iron bars for this work, and demonstrated clearly that this simple process was perfect in its results, even showing a much greater advantage than the original tensile strength of the iron. The present paper will contain notes of the principal work that has been executed in this vicinity and that has come under the writers observation within the past few years.

The first example in point of time is the Bourn & Wise wine cellar at St. Helena, erected in 1888. This building is 400 feet long, 75 feet wide, and three stories high. the entire site is cut into the side of a gentle sloping hill and so arranged as to have driveways 15 feet wide along the entire length at the rear and at the levels of both first and second floors, while beyond the driveways and retaining walls are 13 tunnels, 16 feet wide, penetrating the hill about 200 feet. (in the site of the building and immediately surrounding it were an abundance of boulders, of very hard basaltic

































stone, quite unsuitable for rubble-stone work, owing to their rounding form, but excellent material for concrete when crushed the finer materials were obtained in the form of gravel from a neighboring creek. A good quarry of the soft but durable volcanic turf so common in Napa Valley was found within half a mile of thc building, and as it could he quarried, hauled, and built into the walls for 17 cents per cubic foot it was employed for all walls and partitions of the building. The foundations, retaining walls, lining of tunnel entrances, and the main floor laid on the ground, were formed of concrete in the usual manner. The entire second floor, together with the driveway at that level, was constructed with concrete and twisted iron rods in the form or beams and elliptical arches, as shown in Fig. 1, and as here described. Two rows of iron columns feet inches on centre were placed lengthwise of thc building, dividing the width into three sections of about 25 feet each. '[lie floor was constructed with concrete beams 7 feet inches on centers passing entirely across the building, with their soffits resting on the iron columns. The beams were 24 inches deep from soffit to surface of floor, and each had four 1 x 1 1/4-inch twisted iron rods near the bottom, with a vertical joint along the center of each beam, protected against leaking by strip or lead embedded in each half of the beam. The arches between the beams were elliptical in form, and the concrete 5 inches thick at crown of arches.

The floor was estimated and intended to carry with safety on each beam, for each 25-foot section, two casks, each containing 2,000 gallons or wine, 01. a total weight, including cooperage, of 40,000 pounds, on each section

7' 4" x 25', or about 220 pounds per square foot, uniformly distributed. '[he arrangement of the casks was intended to leave a gangway 8 feet wide in the center of each section, thus giving less stress than a uniformly distributed load. Before the building was finished one of these sections was tested with a uniformly distributed load of 300 pounds to a square foot, and produced a deflection of one-eighth of an inch at the center on removing the load the beam returned to very nearly its original position. Since the building has been occupied many of the gangways have had tiers of large casks placed two in height along their entire length and smaller casks set between thc upper bilges of the large casks, thus loading the floor largely in excess of its intended capacity. Implicit faith seems to be placed in this construction by those engaged upon it that it will carry anything that can be put on it. These floors have now been in use four or five years, and answer the purpose for which they were designed by making a strong and non-absorbing floor and assisting in keeping a uniform temperature throughout the building.

The next building of importance in which the writer employed concrete and iron floors was the California Academy of Sciences in this city. In this case a careful estimate of cost was made of the usual steel-beam and hollow tile construction, and compared with the cost of this method. The result was a saving of 50 cents per squire foot or $20,000 for the entire building,





Fig.2

















in favor of the concrete and twisted iron method. After due investigation the latter method was adopted by the Hoard of Directors and executed by Mr. Ransome. This work was subject to much adverse criticism by certain architects and builders, and some members of the Academy of Sciences, and persistent efforts were made by some to have the work condemned by fire wardens on the ground that it was not provided for in our valuable com- Abstract of' a paper by George W. Percy read February 9 before the San Francisco Chapter of' the American Institute of Architects.

pilation known as the building ordinances. Several visits were made to inspect the work by parties connected with the Fire Department, but as they could not find anything about the construction that could be injured by fire, and had sense enough to perceive its great strength they declined to take any action in the matter. To satisfy all skeptics in regard to the strength of this work a test was made on a section of the second floor 22 Feet span and 15 feet wide this was loaded with gravel uniformly to 415 pounds to a square foot, and showed a deflection of one-eighth of an inch at the center of the beam. The load was left on this floor four weeks, and during that time many of the critics were invited to examine it. That very few availed themselves of the opportunity may indicate an unwillingness to have wrong opinions corrected. To those, however, who were directly interested in the work and had entertained honest doubts of its strength this test was satisfactory and conclusive.

The floors in this building were constructed with large beams about 15 feet apart and flat panels 8 inches thick between, with the plastering apFig.3







 









Fig. 4



plied directly to the concrete and cornices run on the splayed sides of the beams, while the colored cement floor was laid directly on the concrete and marked off into tiles. The tension rods in these floors are hooked into wall anchors at the wall ends, and into holes cased in the flarges in iron columns at the other ends, while all around the large light well the rods clamp the iron columns together. After these floors were put in it was considered advisable to extend the floors 4 feet beyond the line of columns, thus narrowing the light shaft with balconies feet wide all around. This was readily accomplished by placing the forms and filling in the concrete with 3/4 x 3/4 -inch twisted iron rods near the top, placed foot 6 inches apart, and extending from 2 to 4 feet into the old concrete (by cutting the grooves and grouting the rods), as it is evident the tensile strain is at the top in this example. (See Fig. 2.)

The Leland Stanford, Jr., Museum at Palo Alto is probably the largest most important building in the world constructed entirely of concrete. It was designed to have dressed San Jose sandstone for the external walls, backed up with brick, anti to have brick partitions, with concrete floors. Owing to the great cost of stone work it was decided to build the walls of cement concrete colored to match sandstone used in the other university buildings, and to carry out the classic design first adopted. This led to making the entire structure. walls, partitions, floors, roof, and dome, of concrete, making it in that respect a unique building.

Having some knowledge of the disadvantages and defects natural to a monolithic building, such as result from the shrinkage and expansion and contraction of walls, floors, and roofs, several new experiments were tried to overcome them, with varying results of success and Failure. It was thought to overcome the cracking of walls by inserting sheets of felting through the walls following the lines of the joints as near as practicable on each side of windows. The lapping bond of the concrete, however, proved too strong to follow the cracking to follow these joints; in most cases the weakest points were found at the openings, and small cracks appear from window sills to head above.

Joints were formed through the floors about 15 feet apart, and in most cases the cracking has followed these joints and been confined to them. To prevent the possibility of moisture penetrating through the walls, and also to render them less resonant, hollow spaces inches in diameter were









































molded in the walls within two inches of the inside face, and with about 2 inches of concrete between them. These are successful for the primary object, and partially so for the secondary.

The roof being the greatest innovation, and the first attempt known to the writer of forming a finished and exposed roof entirely in concrete, required the greatest care and consideration. '[he result in form and appearance is shown by Figs. 3 and is described as follows: The roof as supported on iron trusses 10 feet on center and has a pitch 0120 degrees. The horizontal concrete beams rest on the iron rafters and with half arches form the horizontal lines of tiles about 2 feet 6 inches wide with joints lapping 2 inches and a strip of lead inserted as shown. Vertical joints are made through the concrete over each rafter with small channels on each side. These joints and channels are covered with the covering tiles shown on drawings, and similar rows of covering tiles are placed 2 feet 6 inches apart over the entire roof, thus forming a perfect representation of flat Grecian tile or marble roof. Notwithstanding the precautions taken, this roof presented several unexpected defects. The most serious proved to be in the Venetian red used for coloring matter and mixed with the cement. This material rendered the covering tiles absolutely worthless, many of them slacking like lumps of lime, and all were condemned and remade. The same material injured the general surface of the roof, rendering it porous and necessitating painting. '[he roof over the central pavilion, being hidden behind parapets, is made quite flat and covered with asphaltum and gravel over the concrete. This roof, with its low, flat dome, is without question the largest horizontal span in concrete to he found anywhere on earth, being 46 x 56 feet, the flat dome having all its ribs and rings of concrete, with the

