<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

The Hon. Mr. Nantel, Minister of Public Works for this Province, has returned from a trip to Europe, Egypt and the Holy Laud, He is reported to he much improved in health.

The Sanitary Engineer has reported to the Health Committee that certain large educational establishments now in process of construction have failed to carry out by-law No. 105, section 26, which requires them to submit to the l3oard of Health plans of the internal arrangements, plumbing, etc., after being duly notified to do so,

At a meeting of the Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects held in their new rooms in the New York Life Insurance Building on May 29th, Mr. Joseph Haynes tendered his resignation, which was accepted. Mr. A. C. Hutchison has consented to act as secretary till the next annual meeting. Mr. Hutchison is known to he a hard worker in the interests of the Association, and the secretaryship could not be in more capable hands.

The members of tile Carpenters and Joiners Union are unlikely to again order a strike in this city, at least until the recollection of their present defeats have become less painful. They demanded that their working hours be reduced to nine instead of ten, and that their wages be increased to a minimum of 20c. per hour instead of 16c. per hour. These demands, the master builders refused to grant. After having lost five weeks of their time, and an advance in wages, which they might have got from their employers at first, they have been compelled to return to work at the same hours as before, anti some for less wages than they were getting previously y. Indeed they have not all succeeded in getting  employment Some employers took non union men on during the strike, and they now refuse to replace them by the strikers. Those union men to whom employment has been given are not recognized as such. The men claim that about five of the builders have acceded to their demands, but this statement appears to he exaggerated. It has only been possible for me to find two, and of these one has failed since the settlement, and tile other I hear discharged his union men immediately after the settlement. The Carpenters' and Joiners' Union probably selected for their strike the slackest rime we have had for tile last twenty years. There are very few buildings in course of construction this year; and the foundations of these are hardly in yet. The only work that is always going on perhaps is jobbing, which in tile month of May is a little more active than usual. All this no doubt helps to account for the little success which rewarded the carpenters' recent effort to force payment of a higher rate of wages. Speaking to a prominent contractor the other day in this connection, I was told that lie had only fifty men in his employ at present; when business is brisk he employes from one hundred to one hundred and fifty men. Of the fifty at present employed, about half are union men to which before the strike he offered an advance in wages of ten per cent., which was refused. He also said that a good many of his former employees applied to him for employment after the strike, but he refused to grant their request. The absurdity of this strike when the business is so dull is clearly illustrated by the fact that hundreds of men are necessarily idle, and as this contractor said Applicants are so numerous that I had to put up a notice at my office entrance to prevent them from coming in last week this contractor said that he received over 70 applications for employment, and at the beginning of this week about fifty. This is not the opinion and experience of one man only, but of the most prominent contractors of the city. A few architects interviewed on the subject with one exception said the strike affected them very little; one said it had been the means of stopping work on ten of his buildings; but it is yet early in the season, and with men plentiful, there is time enough in which to gain the lost time.

<article title=" HAMILTON, ONT." author="">HAMILTON, ONT.

(Correspondence of tire Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

The City Council have been petitioned to further extend the fire limits.

The City Council recently passed a by-law exempting holders from paying. of higher rates. It is said an effort will be made to have the by-law declared to be illegal on the ground that there was not a quorum of members of the Council present at the meeting.

An Arts and Crafts Exhibition in Canada is a sign of progress. Hamilton exhibition, which was held in the well-lighted rooms of the Art School, opened on Queen's birthday and closed on June 2nd. About 25O persons visited it daily, and most of them will undoubtedly have received an object lesson as to the real meaning of art and handicraft. The walls were covered with pictures by local artists, and 40 selected works from the Ontario Society's exhibit, interspersed with some excellent works loaned by Hamilton citizens. The ' Crafts section occupied the centre and filled a row of benches across the end of the large lecture room. The architectural designs were hung in the hall and staircase. Messrs. John Ireland, Stark Gordon J. S. Gordon, A. Stuart and L. Stuart; Marlanres Ireland, Hull and Birely, and Misses Luxton, Sheed, Galbraith, L. Hamilton and Baine, were the most conspicuous exhibitors among local artists. Mr. S. John Ireland's "Attraction in Reflection " and '' Washed Ashore," and Miss Galbraith's My Mother's Garden," were worthy of the praise bestowed on them. Space is too limited to review the pictorial section, and 'as many of the best works have been lately considered while on exhibition at Toronto, it is unnecessary to do so ; it is presumed also, that the readers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will he more interested in the Architectural and Crafts' sections. The architectural exhibits consisted of design for exhibition building by E. Patterson ; city hall in French Renaissance style—the planning is good and the facades are effective. James Balfour, A.R.C.A., exhibited a perspective, in fine, of a municipal building

—a good composition and a most creditable bit of draughtsmanship; he had also a perspective of his Detroit Museum of Art. W. A. Edwards had a fairly good design for a school, but tire coloring detracted somewhat front its merits. R. Clohecy had a pen and ink of additions no Loretto Convent Messrs. Rastrick had a colored perspective of Mr. Lucas' house; John A. Seilard exhibited his silver medal drawings for a museum, art school and gallery; A. W. Peene had a nice bit of pen work, a porch shelter, of very appropriate design. 'lire wallpaper designs by A. McKenzie, Gilbert Clayton and Misses Lucy Mclnnes, D. Crigge, Lena Bowman, were good, as were also the tiles by Thos. Davidson. Designs for painted ceilings—-by Crank Nairn, Misses L. Bowman and Marguerite Jackson. Design for grate and overmantel, by Miss Ida Thompson—this drawing was quite refreshing; to see such good technical work by a girl is unusual; this drawing was exhibited at Chicago. Brasswork—a lectern by Chadswick & Sons.

Wood carving and cabinet work was best represented in the Crafts' section. J, Hoodless & Son had a magnificent bedstead in Empire style, designed by Jas Burton, and carved by J. A. Thompson and W. Taylor; a brie-a-brac cabinet by Malcolm & Souter—designed by J. Souter, carved by Jas. Thompson. and cabinet work by R. Newbegging. This was sold for $110. There was also shown centre tables by R. Boase and Mrs. Robt.

Evans; flower stand by Miss Ethel Hamilton ; folding screen by Amy Barnard, this received an award at the Columbian Exhibition ; carved panels, F'. J. Morrison--particularly good examples of Renaissance; clock cases, etc., by J. Souter and J Thompson. Needlework, designed and wrought by Madames W. H. Baliard, Leithr, Wright. McBrier; lace, Mrs. A. W. Peene and Miss C. McIlroy, also original designs,

In bent iron work, Miss M. E. Anderson, of Glasgow, Scotland, had a varied display.

in carriage painting, Malloy and Malcolm mad a case of samples showing every stage of carriage painting 01) to 14 coat work; this exhibit attracted everybody's attention.

In the German specimens of raised wool	banned by Senator Sand-ford, the horses' heads were really wonderful, being shaded and shorn till it was a work of modeling as well as needlework.

A modeled figure of Ventis was exhibited as the work of Miss R. A.

Baine, the indefatigable secretary of the Association. In silversmiths' work

Andrew Dwine had a nicely modeled figure of a curler, and his brother

Robert an automatic perfume fountain—these exhibits were banned by lire

Merriden Britannia Co. In stained glass there were designs from Walier R.

Duff and Arthur Adam.

The exhibition was a success financially, $244.50 being received at the gates. Over $100 is to he extended in the purchase of works of art to form tine nucleus of a collection for an art gallery.



<article title=" THE MARITIME PROVINCES " author="">

THE MARITIME PROVINCES.

(Correspondence of tire CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER)

The citizens of Moncton, N. B., are very much in earnest in their determination to sector harbor improvements for the town. With regard to the need of such a work and the valuable results to flow from it, its advocates are right to point out that Moncton has already made fine progress as a manufacturing town ; that it is the natural onlet of varied and extensive natural products seeking foreign markets ; that it is well located to become an important manufacturing centre, and that the town already has a good record as a shipping port. Coming now to the possibility of providing the town with a good harbor, the Harbor Improvement Company present an elaborate series of phans sinowing how, by an expenditure that would be very moderate compared with the cost of similar works at other ports, the place earn be provided with a wet dock covering 14 acres, with also a dry dock for nnriking fight and another for more extensive repairs to vessels, The Petitcodiac river flows beside the town. Just beside the sugar refinery, cotton mill, B. & M. railway terminus and the pumping station, flows Half's creek, a winding tidal stream, tributary to tine Petitcodiac. 

The proposition is to convert tins Half's creek into a wet dock, with, as already stated, 14 acres of available water for ships. Wharves will be built doing the banks of tins dock to accommodate vessels as tire business develops. 'fire entrance would be through a lock with double gates, and out of which the water could he withdrawn, leaving a dry dock where a vessel could make light repairs. If more extensive repairs, involving considerable tune, were needed, another dry dock at tire extremity of the wet dock can be provided for. As tire land is ordinary high marsh, there would be no difficulty in excavating wherever necessary, amid the construction material could be of wood and practically indestructible, because experience has proved that timber in the Petitecodiac river is free from worms.

Hence it is claimed, the cost would be relatively small, considering the amount to he done and the value of the works when completed. The largest ships could be accommodated, for the largest vessels can ascend the Petitecodiac to Moncton. The wet dock would ire steadily supplied with fresh water from the creek above, or by pipes from a reservoir within two miles of the town. When completed the new harbor would be beside the sugar refinery and cotton factory, with corn erection with the I. C. R. arid B. & M. railways, and special faeilntres would be afforded for the establishment of new industries along the wharves, one of the inducements being a nominal or loss- rate water supply, and another easy access my water to the coal mimes of Cumberland, Nova Scotia, arid- by rail with tire quarries of Westmorland Albert arid Kent counties, to say nothing of tire lumber and farm products of tire surrounding country.

It is stated as a strong point in favor of the proposed work, that old shipping morn not only recommend it but will back it with their support. The people of Moncton themselves are prepared to aid the project in a substantial way and the company are willing to entrust their hands deep into their own pockets, believing the investment would he a good one. The growth of Moncton, they print oui, would be for the advantage of the traffic on the I. C. R. and of the trade of St. John, and for the good of the whole country. Therefore they maintain the whole country should favor the scheme.

A mass meeting was held in Moncton a short time ago and the sentiment as expressed was strongly in favor of the new docks. 'the Provincial as well as time Dominion government will, it is believed, support the scheme.

A move is being made by Campbellton merchants to improve their harbor. According no the survey of time river made in 1839, which appears to he the last general survey made, there is 23 feet of water in the channel opposite the ballast wharf at the lowest neap tide. But on the traverse there is at times only 11 1/2 feet. 'this gradually deepens, however, that at the Battery point there is plenty of water for the largest ships. '('he plan proposed is to dredge out the south channel, which joins the north channel opposite Point La Garde. This would make a direct course up the middle of tine river, and it is contended tire current would keep it clear when once opened up, About two miles would require to be dredged, but the channel is partly open now. A petition was sent no Mr. McAllister, the representative at Ottawa, and it is believed there will be little difficulty in getting it through the

House.	A. H. Mc.





PERSONAL.

The death is announced of Mr., Charles Goswell. a prominent builder and contractor of Winnipeg.

Mr. F'. H. Herbert, architect, Toronto, has recently removed to new and more commodious offices at 32 Queen street East.



The Hon. William Harry, of Kingston, has been appointed Commissioner of Public Works for the Province of Ontario to fill the vacancy eatised by the recent retirement of Hon. C. F. Fraser.

Mr. J. A. Ellis, architect, of Toronto Junction, in conjunction with Mr. Win, Fingland, late of Toronto, has opened an office in the city of Baltimore, and is about to temporarily remove to that city. On the eve of his departure from Toronto Junction he was tendered a complimentary banquet by a number of the prominent citizens. Mr. Ellis' popularity is well deserved, and his departure is the subject of much regret.





The government are being urged to restore the duty on white granite ware to 35 per cent., as at time reduced duty of 30 per cent, difficulty is being experienced in organizing a company to continue the large industry at St. J ohms, Quebec, formerly carried on by the St. Johns Stone Chinaware Co.

