<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT.

<article title=" THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT " author="">

THE Ontario Association of Architects are coming forward again with an effort to make the Ontario Architects' Act effective. The subjoined manifesto issued to candidates nominated for election in Ontario states the reasons why the Act should be amended, and it certainly seems as if it would be for the good of all that it should be so amended. The Association ask for no



special privileges or powers for members of the Association as opposed to the public, but have accepted fairly the essential character of the Act as a measure passed in the interest of the public. Nor is there any injury offered to my class of practitioners engaged in building at present. 'Wherever there are persons now practising as designers for others and to whom the title architect is an object, the need is regarded as right and it is proposed to throw open to them the Association on its new basis. Builders who design for themselves will be in exactly the same



position as they are now nor is it proposed to place any restriction upon their building for others without the intervention of an architect. In the city as well as the country there is much building that any experienced builder can do. But when it comes to the application of science or to artistic judgment and an architect is employed, the public builders themselves want to be assumed  that the name indicates certain qualifications. If the amendment can he established there seems to l)e no doubt that the profession of architecture will he raised and the whole building business with it. The following is the circular letter to the candidates for election

<article title=" 

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR " author="Langton, W. A.">

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR,

CANADA LIFE BUILDING 

TORONTO, June 12th, 1894.

DEAR SIR

The Ontario Association of Architects, incorporated in 1890, was founded, as the preamble to the Act of Incorporation states, for the better protection of the public interests in the erection of public and private buildings in the Province of Ontario, and to enable persons requiring professional aid in architecture to distinguish between qualified and unqualified architects and to ensure a standard of efficiency to the persons practising the profession of architecture in the Province, and for the furtherance and advancement of the art of architecture.

The act provides that membership of the Association can only be attained by passing qualifying examinations, and the distinction given to architects thus qualified is the title " Registered Architect.

It has been found in practice that the Act fails to secure the ends set forth in this preamble, because the title Registered Architect" is considered to be of no practical advantage so long as there is no restriction as to the use of the traditional title Architect. For this reason the influence of the Association upon both students and architects is materially weakened.

The course of study required for the examinations of the Association has been of great  service to such students as have come up for the examinations, but these students are the few. The majority decline to prepare for the examinations and many give openly as their reason that they can see no use in doing so when they can call themselves Architects without examination.

Many Architects also, who, as persons practising architecture at the time the Act came in force, were registered as members of the Association, have since withdrawn their names and support from the Association on the ground that they do not find it necessary to belong to it.

In this way there will soon be a majority of persons practising architecture in the Province who will not be members of the Association.

Building operations are, in the meantime continually glowing more complicated and involving more branches of scientific knowledge. The education of an architect no longer consists only of an acquaintance with the ancient forms of design, but spreads, of necessity, over a wide field of scientific knowledge; and the difference between the trained and the untrained architect is now not in point of taste only, but in matters directly affecting the public safety.

For this reason it seems proper that the profession of architecture should be put upon the same footing as that of law, medicine, or surveying, since its proper conduct as regards the convenience, health and safety of the public is as much dependent as these professions upon the exact knowledge and skill of the practitioner.

Nor can it be said that a fundamental training that will raise the general quality of design in the Province, is an unimportant public consideration for the Province is being built up, in most parts permanently, and may with the same material and the same cost he made either attractive or Unattractive, according to the skill of the architects. But in a new country where there are no traditions of good design and no ancient standards of excellence constantly before us, the attainments of architects in this direction will depend upon the opportunity they may have

for a training which shall enable them to go beyond what their surroundings can teach them.

The first step to ensuring in architects of the Province a standard of efficiency in the many branches of knowledge now necessary to an architect, is to make the right to use the traditional title "Architect" dependent upon the attainment of this standard, tested in the only possible way by examination. The Ontario Association of Architects therefore intend to petition at the next sessions of the Legislature, that the right to the title,

Architect" be restricted to such persons as have succeeded in passing the examinations of the Association, conducted on such a basis and by such persons as the government may see fit.

It is not, of course, proposed to restrict the right of designing or building to architects. It is only proposed that persons who design or build without being qualified according to the accepted standard be known by some other name than architects.

Nor is it desired to injure those who, at present, make use of the title Architect." The necessity of admitting all such persons will prevent any immediate change in the condition of practice in the Province ; but the process of education will he going on amongst students and the good effect of the Act will appear after a few years in the general improvement of buildings in point of economy, safe construction, and sound sanitation and also, there can be no doubt, as works of art.

I have been instructed by the Council to state the matter to you, an(l to ask you if you will give it your support in the I louse.

I am yours truly,

\V. A. LANGTON

Registrar Ontario Association of Architects.





I ILLUSRATIONS )N S.



RESIDENCE OF MR. GEO. I. TUCKETT, HAM ILTON, ONT. -—JAMES

BAL FOUR, A.R.C. A., ARCHIITECT.



This house is built of Credit Valley stone and Beamsville pressed brick. The inside is finished with native and imported I hardwoods of various kinds, except drawing room, which is finished in white enamel, and the attic and kitchen apartments, which are finished with pine in natural finish. The house is heated with hot water and lighted by electricity.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI BUILDER	COMPETITION	FOR A DRUG



STORE.—DESIGN SUBMITTED BY " TOLEDO 

AWARDED  SECOND POSITION.

The author in submitting this design states that he has done his best to comply with the published conditions of the competition. lie has endeavored to provide a convenient plan, and in designing the elevation has chosen a style adapted from the Spanish Renaissance. The material is Ohio huff stone and huff brick. The roof would be constructed of Spanish tiles. The woodwork would be painted in two shades of cream and white. The facade on the side street would be treated in a similar manner, the brickwork starting from the first stone course above the ground the bottom 16 courses to be glazed bricks.

	SUBURBAN	RESIDENCE	DESIGN ED BY J. C. A. HERIOT,



MONTREAL.

COTTAGE E AT VALOIS ——A. F. DUNLOP	ARCHITECT, MONTREAL.





On 01(1 work the painter often wants to use a putty that dries quick, sandpapers easily, and sticks where it is placed. To make just such putty, mix dry white lead in a good grade of brown japan, add enough lampblack to color it a good bit, give a binding quality by putting in a few drops of rubbing varnish, and lastly give the whole a dash or two of turpentine. The more rubbing varnish is added, the tougher the putty and the slower it sandpapers.

The term "bay window" is applied to a projecting window rising from the ground on a polygonal plan it may be half a square or half a sexagon (the latter being the most common both of them have three sides. Sometimes they are built on plan as half an octagon —that is showing four sides. Those with more sides than four are not frequently used, and the two-sided or canted bay is the least common of all bay windows. When a projecting window rising from the ground shows a half circle, or a segment of a circle, it is called a "bow window," in reference to its shape. An" oriel window" does not rise from the ground like a bay window. It projects from the outer face of the wall, and is supported on a bracket or corbel. The word "oriel formerly meant a small chamber or apartment. These distinctions of bay, bow, and oriel windows are often used synonymously ; but the above definitions will be found to be the correct

ones. 

