<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



panels or coffers filled with inch thick glass, and weighing about 80,000 pounds. This structure covering 21,000 feet, and containing over 1,100,000 cubic feet of space, and requiring about 260,000 cubic feet of concrete, was completed in seven months time from the commencement of the foundations, and at a cost of about 18 cents per cubic foot of space. This the writer believes to be a very low figure for a thoroughly substantial and fireproof building with marble stairs and wainscoting, cast iron window frames and sashes, and other parts equally enduring, and would call attention to the fact that concrete walls with iron rods embedded, when cracked are not in the bad condition of stone or brick walls without bond, but the iron ties are always good to prevent spreading or falling, while several methods may he devised for allowing free expansion and contraction without producing unsightly cracks. Some such method should be employed on all finished  structures

One of the roots in this building was designed to be the receptacle of many valuables, and to render it burglar-proof the floor, walls, and ceiling had copper wires embedded in the concrete not over 3 inches apart, forming a continuous circuit, and designed to strike an alarm bell at the university if any wire should be cut. This device has been in use at the United States Sub-Treasury vaults in this city for several years, arid would he very effectual for prison walls and cells, as it would be almost impossible to cut a hole through strong concrete large enough to admit a man's body without cutting or breaking one or more of the wires, thereby giving art alarm.

Other important works have been executed n concrete in this vicinity, among which may lie mentioned the girls' dormitory at the Sanford University, a three-story building completed in 90 days from the time the plans were ordered. Also the torpedo station on Goat Island, 86x250 feet, with walls about 30 inches high, built under the direction of Colonel Mendell:

and the addition to the Borax Works at Alameda, In the latter the walls, interior columns, and all floors are concrete, and are remarkable for the lightness of the construction and great strength. These floors are constructed as shown in Fig. 5. In these floors the clear span is 20 feet. The floor consists of beams inches wire at bottom, 5 1/2 inches at top, and 1 foot 6 inches deep from bottom beam to mop of finished floor. The beams are placed 2 feet 6 inches on center and the floor over the beams is only 3 inches thick. A section of this floor 10x20 feet was tested February 28, 1893, with the following results Before testing there was a uniform load of t95 pounds to a square feet, when the scale was set to indicate deflection.



With 234 pounds pet square foot, deflection	t - i6 rich.

	273			r-8

	312			1-8

	390

	468			3-16

	551	,,	,,



This deflection is in addition to any that may have existed with the initial load. In November, 1893, the writer visited the building with Mr. H. G. Jacobs, Government Inspector of Buildings, arid in our presence a test seas tirade on a section of the third floor, that was selected as an apparently weak spot owing to several cracks showing on the ceiling. A silting roil was adjusted under the center of the beam. There was is distributed load of about 200 pounds per foot at the commencement 225 pounds per foot additional were applied, and the deflection noted was less than one-sixteenth of an inch. This type of floor appears to lie the first form yet devised for obtaining great strength with the minimum weight of concrete and least expense of carpenter work, the forms used being standard size to he used over again. With the present price of materials and labor such floors can be built with 20-foot span of safe strength for 250 pounds per square foot, arid with finished cement surface, for 45 cents per square foot, arid without the finished floor surface for 30 cents per square foot. Level plastered ceilings may readily he suspended front the beams and wood or tile floors laid over it, as in other methods of fireproof construction. This method of forming floors with the minimum of very rich concrete is lighter than the common method of steel beams and hollow tiles, for the same strength. The concrete should he composed of part of Portland cement  3 parts of selected aggregates.

The results given above are much better thin could have been expected or hoped for a few years ago, and it is quite possible we have riot yet reached the highest development.

In conclusion the writer would say, that while he does not think that concrete iii any form is likely to take tire place of stone, brick, and terra-cotta for architectural work, he feels quite certain that in combination with iron it is destined to fill a large place in the construction of buildings and for warehouses, factories, wine cellars, etc., it is now the best and cheapest material for producing substantial and incombustible work.





OTTAWA.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect AND Builder 

Messrs. Wm. Hodgson and W. C. Edy, architects, of Ottawa, at the request of the local Board of Health. have made an examination of the new Contageous Diseases Hospital buildings in course of erection on Porters Island. They report that the buildings were not properly designed and that the material and workmanship employed in their construction are so inferior in quality that there is nothing to he done but to pull down the work that has been done and reconstruct it in a proper manner, The Local Board of health have sent a copy of the report to Mr. B. F. Stalker, the architect of the buildings. with the request that he will make reply. In the mean time the Chairman of the Board has been authorized to stop the work, while the contractors are appealing to the Courts to either allow them to complete their contract or be released front it.





HALIFAX.

	(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER)

Early in tire present year regulations were adopted by the City Council for the plumbing work, and providing for the proper inspection of all work done within the city in future. Mr. F. W. W. Doane, City Engineer, was appointed Sanitary Superintendant, aid Mr. Claude Donovan, Plumbing Inspector. From the annual reports of these officials it is learned that since the first of May, t892, 460 houses have been connected with the main sewer, and 240 permits granted for building week. Some idea of the sanitary conditions hitherto existing may be inferred front the fact that out of 162 houses inspected on complaint not one was found in a sanitary condition. Referring to the sanitary condition of the city inn the past, the Sanitary Superintendent says : ''There where no inspectors, and closets were fitted up in every conceivable design  in all kinds of places without any provision for ventilation particular attention to drainage. A favorite location was under the back stairs, front which position, under the mode of construction followed in the past, the poisonous gases front the drains easily found their way all over the house. The drain ran to a cesspit or an old stone drain in a filthy condition, and in some cases to the water pipe trench

in the street. Often in some of the best houses there was no trap at all on the closet or waste pipe. These features and many others equally objectionable. triiy be noted on inspection of the plumbing work in three-fourths of the houses in the city, and yet our efforts to effect a reformation have been strenuously opposed. The plumbers are, I think, with one exception, willing and ready to do good work in accordance with our requirements"





<article title=" FIRE-PROOF FLOORS " author="">

FIRE-PROOF FLOORS.

In a paper recently read before the Civil Engineers Club, of Cleveland, William Sabin dc-scribes the forms of fire-proof flooring most commonly adopted in America The oldest method was to floor beams about 5 feet apart arid turn a 4-inch brick arch between the-nit, the beams being tied together to resist the thrust of the arches. The space above the arches was leveled up with concrete-, in which were embedded strips of wood for the flooring. The plastering was applied directly to the bottom of the arches and over the flanges of the supporting beams. When exposed to a fire, however, it soon cracked off, and a special tile- skewback is now used. Such a floor eighs abitent 70 pounds per square foot, exclusive of the weight of the floor beams. Its cost in America is about that of terra cotta. hit this case- the beams were placed 6 feet In 7 feet apart, the tile-s being no inches deep, arid the weight of the floor was reduced to 40 pounds per square foot and its crest to $1.34. A further reduction of weight was effected by the use of porous terra-cotta, obtained by mixing sawdust with the clay. The weight of mire-floor was then brought down to 35 pounds per foot, while its cost was $1.36.

In a test made at Denver an arch of porous terra—cotta 4 feet wide and having a span of feet, bore- a load of 15,145 pounds with a deflection of 0.65 of an inch, and it took 11 blows of a weight of 1. 34 pounds falling from a height of 6 to 8 feet to entirely ele-stro tire inn-eli.

I 'roth svsteitrs of terra-cotta floor have successfully withstood severe fit-es. In a third of construction now being largely adopted, the span of the- floor is increased to 12 feet, and it is supported by 12-inch I-beams. Between these beams is strained a galvanized wire net, said to be capable- of carrying n ,ooo pounds per square foul. A centre board is fixed below this net, amid the space between it and the- top of the floor filled with a very light concrete, made with crushed coke, cork, cement, and a little sand. This floor is 8 inches deep, the bottom flanges of the the-arias being protected by carrying the- ce-tire-nt around the-ni. Its weight is curly 8 pounds per square foot, the deflection being

only one half inch	Its cost is about $1 05 per square in foot









MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

	CAPE BRETON	M MARBLE 

A company has been organized to develop tire extensive de

posits of marble at Marble Mountain, Cape Breton.		The

directors of the company are- : Rod Macdonald of Macdonald & Co., Geo. E. Franrcklyn, of S. Cunard & Co., Rohie Uniacke, president Halifax Banking Co., James B. Hattie, of Hattie &

Mylius, Alel. Mosirer, Henry Saunders, and G. Hobeecker. The directors have- elected the following rig officers to manage tire affairs of the company : President, Rind Macdonald vice-president, Ceorge E. Franklyn : sec-treasurer, Ceo. Haltte.

The capital required to develop tire property has been subscribed, and work is to be carried on under I the supervision of  D. D. MacLachlan, manager.

The marble winch is to he worked may be classified as follows:

Pure white, variegated blue and white, pink, blume, dappled such water white.

Nature has made it possible to produce this marble very cheaply. its location near to a good place- of shipment, while-rio power bent its own weight is necessary to move the marble from the quarries to the- wharf its proximity to the Cape Breton coal fields its perfect natural drainage anti  abundance of sand for sassing in tire immediate neighbourhood ate advantages seldom combined.

Active operations have been commenced. A steam channeling machine, mill machinery and castings for elerricks are all on the- ground and the erection of a mill amid older necessary buildings will be- carried forward as energetically as possible. A tramway down tire mountain side from the quarries to the wharf a distance of about 1,200 feet —will shortly he completed.

'The company expect that within the course of three months they is will be able to place their marble on the market.

A roach in course of construction will bring the quarry within five miles of the railway. Samples sent to Great Britain gave great satisfaction. 'line quarry has aisti been examined and approved by an expert, Mr. Underhill, of Vermont.





A handsomely printed and illustrated catalogue relating to Wilson's inside and outside rolling blinds, has been received front Mr. Geo. Chatworthy, Toronto, Canadian agent.

The Crown Pressed Brick Company of Ottawa are applying for incorporation capital stock $100.000. The provisional directors are G. W. McCullough, H. L. Corbell, J. J. B Butterworth all of Ottawa, rd H. Mills, of Ornistosin, Que.

