<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 

<article title=" THE QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCH ITECTS " author="">

THE QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCH ITECTS.

WE desire to call the attention of architects and students of architecture to the removal of the above Association from the Canada Life Building to the more commodious, handsome, and convenient rooms on the lower floor of the New York Life Building, Montreal. The former location was found to be too inconvenient for the easy access which is desirable, especially at night.

to reach the new rooms no climbing of stairs is needed. Under the new arrangement, the new rooms will be kept open on all days of the week, from 8.30 a.m. until 6 p.m., and on Wednesdays the hours will be extended until 9 p.m.

Those who visit the new rooms will be highly pleased with the success of the Association. All kinds of literature, books, etc., will he found there, for a thorough study and reference on all subjects dealing with architecture and building.

The Council are e desirous that all architects and students should take advantage of the privileges offered by the Association. We have confidence that such opportunities will be valued and used as they deserve to be.





THE EFFECT OF FROST ON GREEN MASONRY.

<article title=" THE EFFECT OF FROST ON GREEN MASONRY " author="">

DURING the construction of the new theater in Zurich, Switzerland, it became necessary to carry on part of the masonry during the winter. The contractors obtained advice from several sources as to the manner in which the work should be clone, but as the recommendations were very diverse the Austrian Society of Engineers and Architects, which has made a special study of cements, limes, and mortars, was asked to recommend a course of procedure. The matter was turned over to tile Cement Committee, and this body instituted a series of experiments, which are described in the following free translation from the report in the Society's journal.

The experiments were made in two ways, the first with brick masonry and the second with rubble masonry, using stone of two kinds. This appeared desirable in order to determine if there was any difference between materials which were unlike hydroscopically. The materials used were dry and free from snow and ice, and the mortar was mixed as stiff as possible. The limes and cements were all tested in the municipal experimental station according to the system of the Society.

The separate pieces of brick wall tested were about 3.28 feet long, 6.56 feet high, and 12 inches thick, and were made with lime, Roman cement, Portland cement, mixed lime and Portland cement, and slag cement. The test walls made with these five mortars were laid with unwarmed water from the city mains and with water warmed to a temperature of 77" Fahr. A series of tests were also made with Roman and Port1and cements and cold water to which 7 per cent. of its weight of cooking salt had been added. All mortars were made with part of the cementing material and 2 parts of sand. In the mixed mortars twice as much lime as Portland cement was used. The lower half of the walls was partly protected by timbers, but the upper portion was entirely exposed. A few tests were also made with brick masonry laid with Hausleitner's frostproof Roman and Portland cements.

The test blocks of rubble masonry were 3.23 feet long, 6.56 feet high, and 16 inches thick. The stone used was partly limestone and partly sandstone. These blocks were made with lime mortar, Roman cement mortar, and Portland cement mortar, mixed with cold and hot water and cold brine as before.

The brick walls were started the last part of December, when the temperature was 26 Fahr., and the 14 pieces were finished in about three weeks. The temperature of the air was taken three times daily until the middle of April, the lowest temperature being on January 2, when 3 degrees above zero Fahrenheit was registered. The walls were pulled down June 6. It was at once apparent that those pieces of masonry laid with mortar containing lime had suffered more from the frost in the exposed upper part than in the portions protected by timbering, since in the former the mortar had plainly been frozen. The following remarks give an area of the condition of the walls, as revealed by an examination of the joints with a sharp iron.

1.	Lime mortar mixed with cold water. The mortar in the joints had hardened but feebly, and the bricks could be pulled apart by hand without exercising any noticeable amount of strength.

2.	Lime mortar mixed with warm water. The mortar in the joints had hardened feebly, and there was no adhesion between the bricks and mortar.

3.	Roman cement mortar mixed with cold water. The mortar in the outer and inner joints had hardened moderately, and there was considerable adhesion between the bricks and the mortar.

4.	Roman cement mortar mixed with warm water. The joints were quite brittle and the inner portions of the mortar not particularly well hardened the adhesion between the bricks and mortar was quite good. The part of the walls protected by timbers was in better condition and excelled any of the preceding walls.

5.	Portland cement mortar with cold water. The joints were hard and the mortar clung well to the bricks. The protected part was better than the other in this case.

6.	Portland cement mortar with warm water. The joints were hard, the mortar adhered well, and the entire piece of wall was little better than any of the preceding.

7.	Lime and Portland cement mortar mixed with cold water. The mortar was badly mixed, brittle and crumbling, but adhesye.

8.	Lime and Portland cement mortar mixed with warm water. The mixture was uniform in this case, but the mortar was brittle and not well hardened in the interior, although adhesive.

9.	" Frostproof" Roman cement mortar mixed with cold water. The mortar was well hardened and there was a good adhesion between it and the bricks. A plaster of the same material put on a part of the wall at the request of Heir Hausleitner was thoroughly hard and without sign of injury.

10.	" Frostproof" Roman cement mortar mixed with cold water. This mortar was well hardened and adhered very well to the bricks. A plaster of the same material was thorougly hard and without defects.

11.	Wittkowitz slag cement. mortar with cold water. The joints were brittle and the mortar fell into little particles when scratched out with the iron. The inner parts which had hardened somewhat were crumbling and showed but a slight adhesion to the bricks.

1 2. Wittkowitz slag cement mortar with warm water. The condition of this wall was but slightly better than of the last noted.

13.	Roman cement mortar mixed with cold water to which 7 per cent. of salt had been added. The mortar was brittle and crumbling, adhering but slightly to the bricks.

14.	Portland cement mortar mixed with cold water to which

7 per cent. of its weight of salt had been added. The mortar was well hardened throughout and adhered well to the bricks.

The masses of rubble masonry were built on a succeeding year, being started on December 28 and completed about two weeks later, the temperature ranging from 7" to 25 Fahr. The blocks were examined on April 7, and were e found to be in the following condition

Limestone Rubble. 1. Lime mortar mixed with cold water. The mortar was completely frozen and brittle, without any adhesion to the stones. The block had fallen completely.

2.	Lime mortar with warm water. The mortar was entirely frozen, brittle and without adhesion.

3.	Roman cement mortar with cold water. The mortar had hardened pretty well, but had not the slightest adhesion to the stones, which could be removed from their beds without injuring the latter.

4.	Roman cement mortar with warm water. The mortar was quite well hardened, but did not adhere in the slightest degree to the stones.

5.	Roman cement mortar mixed with cold water and salt. In this block there was a partial adhesion between the stone and cement, and the latter had hardened somewhat better.

6.	Portland cement mortar with cold water. The mortar had hardened very well and the adhesion between stones an(l mortar was quite good.

7.	Portland cement mortar with warm water. The conditions were the same as with the last block, although the adhesion may have been a trifle greater.

8.	Portland cement mortar mixed with cold water and salt. The mortar was very hard and adhered to the stones very well. The tearing down of the wall required considerable strength and necessitated the use of bars and other tools.

Sandstone Rubble. i. Lime mortal' with cold water. The mortar was entirely frozen, brittle, easily broken, and without a trace of adhesion to the stones.

2.	Lime mortar with warm water. The condition of this block was the same as that of the first.

3.	Roman cement mortar with cold water. The joints were badly frozen, tile mortar crumbling and slightly hardened. There was no regular adhesion between it and the stones.

4.	Roman cement mortar mixed with warm water. This block was in the same condition as the last.

5.	Roman cement mixed with cold water to which salt had been added. The mortar was well hardened and adhered fairly to the stones.

6.	Portland cement mortar r with cold water. The mortar was well hardened, but its adhesion to the stones was only partly good.

7.	Portland cement mortar with warm water. The conditions were much the same as in the last block.

8.	Portland cement mortar mixed with cold water to which salt had been added. The mortar had hardened very well and adhered firmly to the stones. The block could not be broken apart without tools.

The conclusions of the committee from these experiments are that in brick masonry laid in frosty weather mortars into which any part of lime enters should not be used. Roman cement mortars behave fairly well under such conditions, and Portland Cement mortars give good results. The use of warm water gave somewhat better results, and salt materially increased the resistance to frost. With rubble masonry, using either sandstone or limestone, lime mortar was entirely out of place and Roman cement mortar gave poor results unless mixed with salt. Portland cement mortar behaved well, especially with the addition of salt. The final recommendation of the committee is that in laying brick or rubble masonry in winter to use only Portland cement mortar, mixed with salt if possible.

