<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN 	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



Legislative buildings at Victoria is said to be progressing satisfactorily. On thc ground that in the erection of these buildings American materials and workmen were discriminated against, an effort is being made by the Trades Council of Tacoma, to prevent Mr. R. L. Fox, a British subject, who secured the contract for granite work on the Porr Orchard dry dock, from using Nelson Island, B. C., granite in the work.



DOUBTLESS as the result of representations made from time to time by the Architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec, it is gratifying to learn that the Government has resolved to change the method of appraising the value of architectural plans imported for use in the erection of buildings in Canada. We are informed that new instructions have lately been issued by the Government to customs officials, under which architectural plans passing through the customs will in future be charged a duty based on the cost of the building to be erected. It has likewise been stated, though with what authority we know not, that thc new regulations are to be retroactive, and that under them duty will be collected on the cost of the Ontario Legislative buildings, the Toronto Board of Trade, and other buildings erected during recent years from the plans of foreign architects.



THERE is no other class of work in which contractors are obliged to exercise so much ingenuity, good judgment and care as in alterations to existing buildings, which require shoring, underpinning, etc. It is quite common to see the architecture of heavy business blocks and entire streets entirely changed in this way, and in many cases it affords a comparatively cheap means of modernizing property which would otherwise be unattractive and in little demand for business purposes. The calls for this kind of work are becoming more frequent, and it cannot be too carefully studied by all who wish to make themselves competent for any emergency that may arise in their business. We publish in another part of this number a few examples of such work, and hope to follow them with others equally or more interesting.



AN act passed by the Legislative Assembly of Ontario at its last session provides one of the simplest, cheapest and speediest methods that has yet been devised for the settlement of controversies by arbitration. The Board of Trade in any city of 30,000 inhabitants may elect 25 members of a Board of Arbitration to be chosen from 30 or more names selected by the Council of the Board of Trade. Membership in the Board of Trade is not a necessary qualification for the Board of Arbitration. Persons submitting a case may select one, two or three members of the Board of Arbitration to hear and decide the case. Sittings may be entirely private unless otherwise agreed, and unless the time be enlarged by agreement, all awards shall be made within twenty-one days after the submission has been signed. Arbitrators can compel attendance of witnesses on oath and have other powers similar to those in other arbitrations. There is also provision for the submission and award being made a rule of court.



ONF of the most difficult problems that architects have to consider is how to educate the public to a better understanding of what an architect's duties are, and the necessity and value of his services in connection with the erection of buildings. Many people have a hazy sort of idea that architects have something to do with very large or public work, but would never dream that they needed an architect to assist them in building a house, even of considerable cost, much less a small or cheap house such as they imagine "anybody" could successfully manage. How often has the remark been made, "Why, you wouldn't pay for an architect for a house costing so little as that, would you?" And how often persons have started out to save the architect's fee and lost twice as much by lack of his services, to say nothing of the wrangling and worry incident to such efforts. We hope to see this question a live one among members of the Architectural Associations when the season for outings is over, and would be pleased to receive suggestions as to thc legitimate means which might be employed to better acquaint the public with the nature and value of the services which an architect should render to his clients.

ATTENTION is directed to the testimonial letter printed on another page of this paper, showing the value of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER as a medium through which to advertise materials for the use of architects and builders. We have on file and shall publish from time to time a number of other letters from advertisers handling various lines of goods, all bearing testimony to the wide circulation of this Journal and to the fact that the most satisfactory results have followed its use. There are still some lines of business which should he represented in our advertisement pages, as indicated by the following enquiry just received from an architect in a western city

"Will you kindly forward to me by return mail, the names of sonic parties who would tender on wiring a building for incandescent lighting. I have not the time to advertise in the CONTRACT RECORD, therefore I have asked this favor." Architects and builders will oblige the publisher of the ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER by frequently scanning the advertisement pages, and by communicating with us when requiring materials which they do not find advertised.



DURING the past month the people of the United States have been wrought up to the highest pitch of anxiety through a succession of strikes centering in and around Chicago. As usual Canada has been pursuing the even tnor of her way, but while we have been favored with freedom from the turmoil which has engaged our neighbors, we must not be unmindful of the signs of the times and the fact that the question of our continued prosperity may he affected at any time by the development of a larger sympathy with the situation in other countries. The civilized world is groping about for some means of allaying the dissentions between labor and capital. England is well in advance of America in dealing with this question. In the States present progress amounts to little more than a proof that there is a labor question which must be settled, or at least brought nearer to a settlement than it is now, and with as little delay as possible. If this is not done by peaceful agitation and combined effort on the part of all interested, there is every indication that still greater trouble will follow. The relations between labor and capital will not stand many such strains as the recent occurrences in Chicago. None have more at stake in this question than the builders, and they should have as much influence as any class of men for its intelligent treatment. Labor organizations are still too ready to resort to strikes. Peace between capital and labor can never be maintained except by mutual concessions and constant readjustment to meet new conditions. This must be brought about through earnest study and in compliance with natural laws. To this end contractors, material men and tradesmen should meet each other and cultivate at all times a feeling of mutual interest and good will. In this way they would wield a more powerful influence for holding men in check and for preventing such frequent resort to strikes with their sure accompaniments of violence and other aggravated evils. Of all the remedies proposed for removing the differences between labor and capital, arbitration stands to the front as meeting with the greatest amount of favor. It will not be found a universal remedy, as some apparently believe, but it will be very helpful as an intermediate step in some cases, and will become the established usage in others. In all business carried on under public franchises, and largely for public convenience, such as railway and telegraph operation, government should make such regulations as would prevent any set of employees going on strike or leaving their work in such numbers or manner as to interfere with the usual facilities for the performance of public service. For business involving only private interests the best results will come from the recognition of mutuality of interest between employers and employees. When employers and employees shall be willing to meet each other in a spirit of fairness and friendliness, they will be able to work together on a common basis to secure legislation tending to lessen the differences which now frequently arise, and secure their equitable adjustment without recourse to strikes. The whole subject is worthy of the serious attention of all business people. The necessity for its consideration is imperative.



The days of the "steeple" are numbered in New York. The many tall buildings recently and still being erected in the city completely dwarf the former landmarks.

