<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



	HOW TO STUDY DESIGN.*

<article title=" HOW TO STUDY DESIGN " author="">

Is it possible to design in harmony with the spirit we live in, or to distinguish between the archaeological and architectural beauty of ancient buildings? Why cannot we design buildings as an engineer designs an unsophisticated iron bridge without the result being hideously ugly ? Will not the terrible buildings of the Victorian Gothic era with which our hind is Ire— spattered have in the eyes of succeeding generations the same beauty (is it architectural or archaeological ?) that the crude Classic productions of the Jacobean and Queen Anne periods have in ours? and if so, why do we not see the beauty of our had architecture? Are riot we perhaps on the wrong tack altogether, and only manufacturing picturesque grottoes of ancient relics, with the genuine and characteristic architecture of our age is to be found in the works of engineers, mill and factory builders arid gin-palace fitters? Are the congeries of Mediaeval and Classical oddments, whether in plan or detail, that compose our Domestic and Ecclesiastical architecture, really works of national art? Are not workhouses and hospitals or a Metropolitan Tabernacle or railway station interior nearer the mark ? L)u not architects, as far as their revived pedantries of Art are concerned, run a great risk of becoming mere exotics, useful perhaps in arranging the business of a building, hut to the world at large as artists, idiotic in expression and utterance ?

Can architecture as now practiced by its professors continue to survive when the debris of the ages has been rummaged through and there is nothing new to revive— when the history of architecture has been learnt in vain, and the poor history—bred architect can no longer find fountains for prigging ready-made details from ? Must we really come in the conclusion that clothes can only lie made on old patterns, patches and defects included, arid only artistic pictures painted of bygone times and not of our own ? Is there not beauty or pathos, simplicity of wondrous complexity in our own extraordinary age, with its incessantly varying developments that the architect can reflect in the buildings that he designs for its accommodation Cannot we hope that some seeds of the architecture may he sown iii our work-a-day buildings that may develop into a detailed style possessing true beauty? Does the barren unphilosophical study of our present authorities assist us one whit, or even suggest to us the idea that our own age is the outcome of history. and that we should pursue its direction and learn its lessons of the motive of its soul rather than hark back again and again to the mere outer forms of nothing but bygone air as if that soul were dead ?" We may well ask ourselves the plain question, whether if the so-called history of architecture comprised in illustrated authorities, a list of which would lie short arid easily made, was laid as much aside by architects and their educators and examiners, as, say, the history of ornament is, though for no given reason—perhaps it is mere forgetfulness—we should be able to design at all ? Imagine yourself, if you can, sitting down to design a church or a house in the country with the situation that you were not to revise any ancient  style in your building. arid does riot the thought seem both absurd and painful ? If so, take for your subjects either a factory, say fur hoot blacking or fancy soap, or a railway station block, in which it ought to be both absurd and painful to employ any ancient style,  and see how you would be able to get along without the seemingly indispensable history. And yet if history teaches its anything as to the sources of life and motive in design, it shows that the Greeks had little or no history of architecture to draw upon and revive, and that the Goths, who probably knew little or nothing as to ancient Art, deliberately set aside tire productions of their ancestors, even as types, and thought and acted for themselves alone. Can anyone say that the results do riot justify their methods of sturdy, arid shall we be forced to accept as us conclusion that tire less we have of the study of architectural history as at present conducted the better?

Let ins return to our examples. The results of your efforts to design a factory or a railway block would probably be satisfactory and negatively beautiful in proportion to your regretful resignation to the facts of the cisc, and to your own ignorance of the pictures in your own architectural history hooks, or, in other words, of what different people haul none under differing circumstances elsewhere. What positive beauty your work possessed would consist of the manifestation of your skill in the choice, contrast an arrangement of materials, in the proportions of your building, in its balancing of voids and solids, its n ecessings, in its simplicity or variety of line, its unaffected expression of purpose and skillful adaptation to irse. Every line of these qualities should be equally evident in the more monumental or domestic subjects, such its the church or country-house. The church having no obstructions to sight, and hieing perfect acoustically, and with the house rejoicing in pure plate-glass windows where necessary, with further qualities such is a perception of the poetry of scale, of rhythm in contrast or repetition of grouping and perspective, of mystery and distance, with fancy at work on the detail, applied perhaps unconventionally, not always where most effective in execution, and either emphasizing construction or decoratively masking it, suggesting intellectual composition as well as picturesque freedom, the harmonious arrangement of features as well as the application of free ornament and many other ideas in design, with play of light and shadow, effects of lighting and sequences of color, all ripen to the strident curt adrift from the modern school of architecture, arid an interesting building having naturalness of purpose and real beauty is almost assured so long as each quality of use and fancy is exercised with reasonableness and decency. Some difficulty may occur to the mind as to the quality of ornament not cast in ancient moulds, but the same elements of beauty govern and compose ornamental detail as general architectural deign, arid there is



titer real by Mr. A. Berbsford Pite, A R.I. B.A., before the Architectural Association, 1 London, November 10th, 1893.

ever open to the ornamentist the horticulture of Nature store, which, unlike a traditional sources, is infinite as the sea. Let it not be supposed, ever, that by ornament derived front Nature naturalistic ornament is near as the forms of Nature copied in carvings or paintings. The material and the purpose of the ornament, and many other circumstances, must control the conventionality of its treatment. Remember that a world of art and design exists between the Parthenon frieze and the aettial horses annul mien that Phiulias saw around hum, arid that if intellectual discrimination is not used in the translation of form and matter, arid design is not interposed between Nature and ornament, no beauty will be the result. But this is at present a digression apart from carvings and paintings. How about moldings, capitals, cornices arid purely architectural forums ? Cain these be designed except by ignoramuses. apart from style and precedent ? Must errainhy. In your blacking factory example you may only require a dignified and simple cornice of hunch and stone to cross the wall, turn through, from pure poverty of imagination mirth defective training, your may have  other resource that a doubly-debased Greek oroluhuing, there is the conceivable possibility of a simple contrasting arrangement of light, shade and elevation considered inn relation only to the wants of your front, and also a possible combination of light in contour of curved and straight members, forming a harmonious wIntule that shall be satisfactory and yet cuniginal, furnishing evidence of independence of thought and perception of beauty to your professional critics. This may sound impracticable and we expect to be told the ancient styles are the languages of the art of architecture, that their forms and details are its svoru, and that other fine imaginings without such words and dietioun are vain and utterly incapable of realization. That we artist learn these languages as part of our education, and trust either to heredity or to fickle fortune to herein us what to say and how to say it. Learn your styles, master your Orders, copy them carefully, drum them into your memory for a senseless reproduction is mere forms, and you will be qualified to become a student of a dignified architectural school, and in addition if you cram sup the mathematics of the proportional ratios, count the columns of the Parthenon and muster a few pedantic technicalities from Gwilt's Glossary of Terms, your may pass the Art section of qualifying examination. That the training developed to this end has its uses cannot be denied, for ill training is valuable, and as an introduction to the study of archaeology it may be definitely useful, though this is very far removed from the cultured dilettanteism in which it took its rise but to the architectural student it is purely incidental, and as at present conducted, the study of the styles of antiquity is in no sense a justification for the practice of modern

architectural	design.

We are living in an age distinguished above all others for its inventive genius— time pnirnue essential of genuine architecture—for wealth, another essential to the practice of architecture. having a professional admiration for the arts—famed for municipal enterprise—an age, too, of unexampled peace and prosperity. But architects, instead of growing in public esteem as artists, are losing ground yearly their works, instead of being characteristic of the whole spirit of the age, only illustrate their own personal fads and fancies and their love for the passing whims of the day. The whimsicalities of the gentler sex with regard to the latest fashion will not exceed in grotesque flightiness the eccentricities of the architects of the last few generations, as illustrated in their periodical fashion-plates of buildings, when they are reviewed, say, at the jubilee of the Architectural Association. 'Ira what esoteric impulse are the gyrations of the purpose of architecture nIne, if not the  error of imagining shunt the past is the present, that ancient means modern, and that archaeology is architecture ? What accountable idea underlies the continuous and futile reproduction of architectural antiquities in modern design ? Why should a consistent and enlightened race such as English produce, through their architects, within a tent tony, such anachronisms as the National Gallery and the Royal Courts of Justice, or public statues, either clothed in nothing but slices without canopies or in frill niotlerin dress (gilded), covered by htaldachinos, and surrounded by protected figures, mostly females, only ideally clad ? What rational theory of architectural design, upstart friunut archaeology, can reconcile the production of St. George's Hall, Liverpool, with the Hosises of Parliament and Westminster? Will not posterity justly conclude upon abundant evidence that the Victorian architects were petty-spirited, out of sympathy with their environment, cacln hment on vindicating some absurd archaeological revival wholly unsuited to their buildings, and wasting their eloquence in incriminating the age which gave them birth as lacking faith, as Philistinic in spirit and cruel to all the arts, and in bewailing the hard fate that did nor cause them to be born barbarians or feudal serfs? And yet our age cannot be said to hive hateful men practicing as architects, possessed of genius and talents of the highest value to architecture,  inventiveness, perception of beauty and form, of wide artistic sympathies, and of remarkable adaptability of style. The English architects of the various revivals have been men of eminent gifts and enthusiasm for their art, and probably without their equals among European nations. The Greek revival, Iraseul upon the work of Stuart and Revert, Wilkiuns, Cockerell and others, was no minor artistic fad these men were profound archaeologists, the combination of artistic instinct and antiquarian learning displayed in such works as the beautiful Hanover Chapel— uloonsuetl, shall we say, through time apathy nuf arehiteen ?—The entrance to Euston Station and University College, London is worthy of unstinted admiration. There is a thoroughness of historical study manifest in these buildings that coraipels prutise in each case a lofty ideal conception has been attained, and a completeness of architectural feeling for every detail that betnukens the earnest designer. Yet in each case the manifest powers of design possessed by the architect have been concentrated upon designing a Christian church  a Greek would have designed