<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

TREATMENT OF COLORS IN DIFFERENT LIGHTS* <article title=" TREATMENT OF COLORS IN DIFFERENT LIGHTS " author="Cochlan, W. T.">

A very essential feature, and a subject worthy of more study than is usually accorded it, is the treatment of light and shade in decorative art. I do not think there is a master painter who has not frequently been confronted by some very strange and inartistic ideas of his customers. In some cases by practical advice and illustration, these ideas may be modified and possibly result in a creditable job to customer and decorator. In the selection of wall hangings the goods are placed generally where a strong light prevails. This may be very well in some cases, but how often is it we hear that the paper looks better in the

piece than on the wall What is the reason? Is it the pattern ? No The customer has not considered the light in the room. The same defect may occur once in a while to the decorator. For example, a room may appear to be very light when devoid of curtains, shades, furniture, etc., and in this condition the work may indeed look very satisfactory when completed. But when the room is furnished, it lacks one thing——decision. What appeared to be a delicate ceiling, is now so delicate that it would take a pair of opera glasses to find the design.

There are men we sometimes run across, who think they know it all, but if there is any mechanic in the world of labor who has a broad field for study and food for reflection it is the house painter of to-day. It is the duty of the employer in the interest of himself and workmen to impress upon them the necessity of closer attention to the methods of decorative art. A few practical notes in reference to the treatment of colors in different lights, will, I think, not be out of place.

I call to your mind a room with a south or south-western exposure having at least two good-sized windows. Let the ceiling be treated with a groundwork of light cinnamon, frescoed in outline with a medium shade of old gold color, the high lights to 1)e tipped with gold leaf. Let the side walls be grounded in a dull sage color as high as picture moulding. For frieze make a slightly darker shade and introduce ornament in colors of old gold, deep crimson and dull pink. The cornice should be treated with special care, and I suggest that the cove should have the main portion tinted in the body color of ceiling and blended down into gold at the completion of the arc. The members of the cornice above the cove should be in the lighter shades so that the whole may blend together towards the ceiling. Woodwork should be ivory white, rubbed to a dead finish. In furnishing this room I would suggest white and gold furniture, with upholstery of light amber tint or otherwise old rose. This would give contrast and harmony combined. Carpet should be of light fawn color, with just sufficient color in relief to show design. This would make a very desirable reception room or

parlor.

We will take as another example, a room with a western outlook, a shady retreat as it were. Let the ceiling be of a medium shade of old rose color with stile about eighteen inches around it in peacock blue. Let ornamentation be ;n the main body of the ceiling, and consist of corners, breaks and lines of geometrical figures, to 1)e in darker shade of body color, with strong lines of deep brown between centre and stile. Let the side walls be in a full and distinct shade of terra-cotta, leaving space for frieze about fourteen inches. Let two and one-half inches on top and bottom of frieze be tinted in free-stone color, the remaining nine inches in purple brown. Now take a double stencil of Grecian key border with eight inch figure, and use light free-stone color for same. As a relief make a panel or break, each three feet around room, the same height in full as frieze, that is, fourteen inches. Let this be a perfect square with a medallion in centre of each panel, introducing plaque pictures of the muses, literature, art and music. For colors let the Outside of medallions be in the purple brown, and centers on which pictures are to l)e painted be pure gold-leaf. The outside edges of the panels may be treated as a mat, and I suggest their being beveled in light and shade. Treat the cornice with care. Let the cove be treated with the free-stone color, and upper members in terra cotta and old rose. Let the lower members be in

purple and peacock blue. A great improvement to this room would be to stencil main members of cornice in imitation stucco work, using only colors as herein suggested. For a study, library or music room, I am sure this would gratify the taste of

*Paper read by W. T. Cochlan at the Third Annual Convention or the Society of Master House Painters and Decorators or New Jersey.

any lover of decorative art. Almost any kind of furniture will be in harmony here.

We will now go to the other side of the house, a room looking eastward. Let the ceiling be in two shades of pearl grey, very light, the darker shade to be placed on the outside edges of ceiling and extending towards center about twelve or fifteen inches, the two shades to be blended, not clouded into each other. Let the ornamentation be in garlands of flowers, twined naturally over a rustic branch. Let this take the shape of ceiling as closely as practicable and be about fourteen inches from cornice. The colors to be cheerful, but not overdone. Nature may be followed very closely on this background without going to extremes. Let side walls be tinted goblin blue, fairly light, with frieze in deeper shade. I would suggest as a pretty design for a frieze a festoon of roses tied at the commencement of each with a how-knot. Let the cornice be tinted in the three shades of color, only upper members in color same as main body of ceiling. Cove in dark shade of same. Lower members to be in side wall tints, split only by one member in gold leaf. Going over this combination, in my mind, I can fancy how this room would look with a dining table tastefully laid with fruit and flowers interspersed with china and plate.

For a room with a northern outlook, here is a pretty and warm combination: Let the ceiling be painted in a rich cream color, devoid of ornamentation. If the walls are evenly laid out, coat them in a light salmon tint, have them struck out into panels according to the size of the room; let the ornament only form panel by running a chain pattern in border and corners in sage green and deep salmon. Outside this border run a pearl pattern in zinc white. Afterwards line off the whole with three-eighths inch vanish line about one and one-half inches from border. At the top of each panel paint a wreath of flowers tied with ribbon and hung gracefully in (:enter. For frieze let the background be in a lighter shade of wall paper. In working this frieze select a stencil with full pattern, a festoon of various flowers with moderate sized leaves. Use thin, transparent colors for stenciling. After laying on each pattern wipe out high lights. Let the colors be as natural as possible, according to selection of flowers. Let the cornice be treated very lightly in color and allow two prominent members gold leaf on face. The woodwork may be in oak or ash, according to taste. This will make quite a handsome parlor or sitting-room.

I could say a great deal more on the subject, as there is always a sense of pleasure to the decorator while pursuing his interesting occupation. However, I conclude, trusting that my remarks may result in generous criticism, thereby educating us all through debate and practical attempts to improve.

	AUSTRALIAN WOOD PAVING BLOCKS	FOR

CANAI)A.

A LETTER has been received, says the Australasian Builder and Contractor's News, by Mr. Harry Wood, Under-Secretary for Mines and Agriculture, New South Wales, from Captain J. C. Rounding in reference to the offer of the Department in regard to wood blocks for Vancouver , B. C., Canada. Captain Rounding says he conveyed the offer of the Department to his friends in the City Council of Vancouver, and by last Saturday's mail he received a letter from their City Engineer, Mr. T. 1-1. Tracey, as follows :—" I am directed by the City Council, in reply to your favor of the 17th March re wood blocks for paving, to say they will gladly accept your offer, and will have the blocks laid in the most substantial manner in a conspicuous place. The street selected is 264 feet by 50 feet between gutters, at the entrance to the C.P.R. station and wharfs, the test of the street being laid or about to be laid with California bituminous rock on concrete foundations. I have copies of the best London specifications for block pavement, but would be pleased to receive particulars as to the mode of laying you have found best. Should you send more than one variety of wood blocks, I wilt see that they are laid so that they can be distinguished, and the qualities and life of each noted." Captain Rounding adds that the blocks will be laid in the most prominent and important part of the City of Vancouver, the main entrance to the Canadian Pacific railway terminus station. The importance of the movement cannot be over estimated, and he has had inquiries on the same subject from other parts of the Dominion. He thinks that if Australian wood blocks are once successfully adopted in Canada, the cities in the United States will soon follow suit.

