<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" THE PERSPECTIVE PROCESS " author="">

THE PERSPECTIVE PROCESS.

On first learning the meaning of a picture, it would naturally

strike the mind, says the Illustrated Carpenter and Builder, that a sure and easy method of carrying any point from its position in space to its position in the picture would give anyone the power of drawing the outline required. Such a process might be laborious, but it would put the whole design within possible reach. This method would be an excellent one for learners to begin with, previously to entering on the use of vanishing points; it would l)e something like learning to count with pebbles before entering on the common rules of arithmetic. Even without diagrams it may lie possible to give such a description of the process as will enable some who have never attempted anything before to put a few simple figures into perspective. Let the picture plane, which suppose transparent, be spread out before the spectator, teaching down to the ground, and bounded on the right by a side wall, which extends both before and behind

it.	Every point which is to be drawn has a point directly below it on the ground, which call its ground-point ; and a point directly opposite on the side wall, which call its side point. All the ground points make, when properly jointed, what the architect calls a plan all the side points are elevation. The picture would be called a section if points were taken on it opposite to the points to be represented; instead of this a point is carried to its place on the picture along a line drawn to a certain point in front of the picture, which represents the eye of the spectator.

This eve-point has also its ground point and its side-point. The picture has its ground line and its side line, and every point in the picture has its ground-point upon the ground-line and its side point upon the side line. A picture-point is known when we know where the ground-point s by its distance from the side line, and where the side-point is by its distance from the ground line. To lay down a given point on the picture, draw a line from its ground-point to the ground point of the eye ; that line meets the ground-line of the picture in the ground point of the picture point required. In the last sentence for ground read side, and we see how to find the side point of the picture point in the side line of the picture. Two lines being drawn on a paper perpendicular to one another, the right side of the paper may represent the side wall laid flat on the ground by turning round its ground line, and the left side may represent the ground plane. The two sides of the line which separates the upper part of the paper from the lower represent the ground line and side line of the picture. Take another paper, or another part of the same paper, draw two perpendicular lines, lay down the ground and side picture points by taking their distances from the paper on which they have been found, and the points of the picture may at once be put in their places. This is an explanation of the principle of a picture and an exhibition of a sufficient method of construction that is of sufficient power, but not of sufficient facility; every point requires the drawing of three lines.





CREDIT VALLEY BROWN STONE 14,905 pounds is the average crushing strength per  From Carroll & Vick's No. 6 Quarry ___________ square inch of our Credit Valley Brown Stone.

Credit Forks,	The highest standard of test attained by any pure Sandstone in America.

TN confirmation of the facts above stated, we have pleasure in directing your attention to

SANDSTONE, fine grained, reddish brown. Con-	I

the accompanying table, showing the result of the test of our stone, in connection with

tains quartz, and a little felspar and mica, the series of tests of building stories conducted in 1892 at the School of Practical Science,



I he stone is in beds of four feet and under, Toronto, under the direction of a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects. and can be handled in pieces up to five tons. By referring to the results of the tests above mentioned, it will be seen that the average Quarry 300 yards from Railway. crushing stress of the majority of Canadian and American sandstones is far below that of

	______________	ours, the difference in our favor ranging from 75 to 50 per cent.

	Section	Crushing Average Crush-	The Credit Valley Brown Stone, owing to its modest tone, harmonizes beautifully

	Speci- under Height	Crushing	 Stress	ing Stress per	with red or cream colored brick.

	men. Pressure	 Load	per sq. in	Square Inch	   It has been reported that there is difficulty in obtaining Credit Valley Brown Stone.

					—		To correct this mistaken notion, we wish to state to architects and the I)public that we have

		Ins	Ins	Pd.	Pds 	Pds 	a large quantity of stone ready to ship on the shortest notice, which can be followed tip

	A						with an unlimited supply I Last year we mad I extensive additions to our plant and opened

	B 27/8 x 3!	27/8	131,000	15,188	up new quarries and mines and will supply promptly all orders g yen to us or our agents.

	C 215/16 x 3	27/8	130,000	CARROLL, VICK & CO.

	D	3X3 27/8 13,000 14,777	14,905	Quarry Credit Forks, Ont.	Office 84 Adelaide St. West, TORONTO 



Montreal Agents: T. A. MORRISON & Co., 118 St. Peter Street.



THE



"STEEL-CLAD" BATH



t





o





















 _





 









 MANUFACTURED BY











Toronto Steel-Clad Bath and Metal Co., Ltd.

123 Queen Street East, Toronto.

	MONTREAL.	ST. JOHN N. B.	QUEBEC	VICTOR1A B. C.



ADDRESS All COMMUNICATIONS DIRECT TO THE COMPANY.