<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



two ways —in the time necessary to make up a tender, and in the reduced possibility of error. Allowing that the cost of the surveyor's services be paid by the contractor there would still be for the latter economy' in this system; and we believe that contractors who might feel themselves quite competent to make up their own estimates, survey and all, would find a reliable bill of quantities well worth its cost purely for the purpose of comparison with their own figures. Such a system is also helpful in preventing friction between architects and contractors. In some cases it would call for greater care and definiteness in specifying, and all such influences are beneficial to all parties to a contract. While architects would no doubt be pleased to see a reform in the direction indicated, it is not likely to be brought about unless the initiative is taken by the contractors.

	TRADE COMMISSIONS TO ARCHITECTS.<article title=" TRADE COMMISSIONS TO ARCHITECTS " author="">

An English architect sends to the Builder for publication a circular addressed to him by a firm of manufacturers of building materials, in which a commission is offered to him on such of the manufacturer's materials as lie may specify for use in his practice. Exposure of similar methods has from time to time been made in the American architectural papers. Much has properly been said in reprobation of manufacturers and supply firms who seek to secure business on this plan. The British Architect, however, presents another aspect of the case when it says

"If one asks why Brown, the stove grate man, offered Robinson, the architect, a commission on the sale of goods, one is tempted to think of the number of Joneses who must have given Brown some direct encouragement to believe all architects were equally susceptible of being approached in a similar manner. A black list of manufacturers who offer commission to architects might be a useful thing, but a similar list of architects who receive it might be a more effectual cure. Some architects don't take commission from manufacturers they receive presents. They ought to be included in the list. If Jones receives 15 per cent. commission, and Smith accepts an umbrella or a chimney piece ornament, there is no difference in the quality of their offence. They both sell their independence for what, in the opinion of the manufacturer, it is worth. That apparently is not much. It is easy to Put the manufacturer into the pillory for offering commission to architects. But there is no smoke without fire, and if all architects, or even the greater proportion of them had a1ways promptly and decidedly rejected any temptation to receive commission from manufacturers, we have an idea the "custom" would practically be dead now. To the manufacturer, no doubt the practice appears to be but that adopted in the pushing of every business. That he would be glad enough to be quit of it goes without saying. It is an expensive and awkward procedure at the best of tunes. There can be nothing more fatal to honest building and good architectural results than the passing of commissions from manufacturer to architect. The architect loses his independence and self-respect as a professional man, and the manufacturer comes to depend more upon the offering of percentages than the quality of his goods for the extension of his business. But whilst it is impossible too strongly to condemn the system, let it not be forgotten that there are two sides to the question and that it takes two to complete the transaction. Those who receive commission are as much to blame as those who offer it. Are the manufacturers wholly to blame ? We think not. But it would need a great deal of courage and independence on the part of any firm of manufacturers to attempt to prove the contrary. A list of offending architects would be quite as interesting reading as that of offending manufacturers."

There is unquestionably ground for this view of the subject. Some Canadian architects are not held to be above suspicion in the matter of accepting bribes. For example, a cement dealer who recently sent samples of his material and circulars to an architect in an Ontario city received in reply a letter from the architect in which he stated that he wished to lay a concrete floor in his cellar, and requesting the dealer to send him enough cement for the purpose. Here was a plain intimation from an architect that he was open to a bribe. In the light of such invitations to wrong doing, it is not to be wondered at that the honest architect finds himself approached with offers of commission and undue influence in other forms. Such practices are highly demoralizing to all concerned, and the influence of architects, manufacturers and dealers of integrity should be exerted in an endeavor to stamp them out.



The builders of London, Ont., held a very enjoyable picnic at Port Stanley a few days ago. A baseball match, a tug of war, and a baby show were among the prominent features on the programme,

 COMPETITIONS.



The Ministry of Public Works, Cairo, invite competitive designs until March 1st, 1895, for the new Ghizeh Museum to be erected in that city at the estimated cost of £123,000. The first premium will be £630, and 420 will be divided among the four architects whose designs are placed next in order of merit. Some of our Canadian architects, whose fancy has been running in the direction of Egyptian architecture, should stand a good chance in this competition.

We are informed that no decision has yet been reached in the competition for designs for a public library building at London, Ont. It is reported to be the intention of the Library Board to appoint Mr. 0. A. Graydon, City Engineer, to be the judge of the merits of the designs submitted, and to make the selection of the most suitable plan. At last accounts, however, the plans had not been placed in Mr. Graydon's hands.



 ILLUSTRATIONS.



MISSION CHURCH, BRANTFORD, ONT.-——E. SWALES, SHEFFIELD AND DONCASTER, ENG., AND H. ETCHES, M.I.M.E., (LOND.)



BRANTFORD ONT., ARCHITECTS.



This church is designed to seat 204 persons. The foundation and outside walls are of brick faced with rough dressed stone, with half timber work above. The roof is boarded to purlins in narrow widths, jointed, covered with felt and shingles, with red ridge cresting. The total width of interior is 25 feet, total length, 70 feet. The interior is divided up into five bays with six frame principals.

DESIGN FOR PROPOSED STATE CAPITOL AT OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON TERRITORY.—R MACKAY FRIPP, F.R.I.B.A.



ARCHITECT, VANCOUVER, B. C.



THE	ROUND CHURCH OF ST. SEPULCHRE'S, CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND. - FROM SKETCHES BY ANDREW T. TAYLOR,



F. R.I.B.A., MONTREAL.



SMALL HOTEL. AT	Vancouver R, B. C. —R. MACKAY FRIPP, F.R.I.B.A., ARCHITECT.



<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



MEMBERS of the Toronto Builders' Exchange, their families and friends, numbering about 150 persons, enjoyed a pleasant days' outing at Wilson Park, N. Y., on July 27th, the occasion being the annual excursion and picnic of the Exchange. The comfortable steamer Garden City carried the company to and from the picnic grounds. The weather though very warm was bright and clear, and when tempered by the lake breezes and the shade of the grove was thoroughly enjoyable.

The excellent music discoursed by the string band which had been engaged to accompany the excursion added not a little to the pleasure of the trip.

Three or four hours were pleasantly passed at the park in boating, bathing, games for the children, etc. Nor must we omit mention of one of the most exciting events of the day, viz., the annual base-ball match between nines representing the Builders and Supply Merchants. The rival teams were composed as follows

Builders— T. Cannnon, Jr. (Capt.), J. Crang, H. Lucas, Win. Saulter, John Hanrahan, J. Murphy, Bedford, J. Thomson, J. Little.

Supply Merchants -John Maloney (Capt.), W. Whillans, A. Dickey, Isaac Price, C. Oakley, J. Oakley, J. Donovan, M. Ryan, T. Rattledge.

Umpire pi —T. Stewart.

The game was watched with much interest by the friends of the players, and every exhibition of good play was enthusiastically applauded. Nor were such exhibitions few and far between, as might be supposed, seeing that many of the players only enter the field once a year.

At the close of the game the score stood—Supply Merchants, 9 ; Builders, 8.

The company bade farewell to the park at 5 p.m. and shortly after 8 o'clock were safely landed at the Yonge street dock..

For the success which attended the event, credit is largely dime to the following gentlemen who composed the committee of management :—William Forbes, Chairman ; Thomas Cannon, John Aldrich, David Williams, Isaac Price, William Booth, John Barnard, Thos. Murray, Geo. Oakley, Henry Martin, Frederic Bayliss, James Craig, John Murphy, Benjamin Brick, William Park, Wm. Whillans, J John Phillips.

It is hoped that this annual excursion and picnic of members and friends of the Exchange will be maintained and become increasing1y popular,

