<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.

<article title=" SOME ASPECTS OF THE MUTUAL RELATIONSHIP OF ARCHITECTS " author="Anderson, M.">

SOME ASPECTS OF THE MUTUAL RELATIONSHIP OF ARCHITECTS.

WE reprint in part the remarks on the above subject delivered by Mr. Macoicax Anderson in his presidential address to the students of the Royal Institute of British Architects, as follows

You may be called on to aid by your testimony as experts in influencing judgment for or against your contemporaries. It has ever been—and I suppose it ever will be—the case that men will differ. Even the highest code of morality anticipated this in the qualified injunction. "If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men." No doubt there are some to whom the injunction does not apply, inasmuch as to live at peace with anyone seems to be with them a sheer impossibility; but even with those who are peaceably disposed, circumstances will occasionally arise involving a principle which they cannot concede, and which render it necessary to appeal to the help of others either in law or arbitration. I cannot claim to speak on this subject as an expert, my appearance in Courts of law having happily—although unfortunately, too—been restricted to the discharge of the wearisome duties of a juryman ; but it has sometimes vexed me to hear some of my professional brethren, whom I knew to be men of probity, censured by others for appearing as witnesses and giving testimony against them. Such experiences, which ate by no means restricted to the profession of architects, may be thought to be unedifying, and I confess that I regard the relationship as perhaps the least desirable and the most inartistic which an architect can occupy; but yet I fail to see why the witness should be the subject of censure more than he against whom he testifieth. Is it not the fact that the last named is frequently the original sinner? How can light be thrown on a purely technical point other than by the evidence of experts; and how can such evidence be obtained if none will appear as witnesses? How can questionable or derogatory proceedings be exposed if reputable men will not come forward to testify against them? Further, why should it be thought strange that men of the same craft should differ in the witness-box, so long as it is a patent fact that in scarcely any topic of ordinary conversation in society will the same view be taken? In this relationship the rule of guidance appears to me to be clear and simple. Do not consent to give evidence as to the works or character of a brother architect unless you are perfectly sure that you can testify from the safe basis of experience, and in the honest belief that what you testify is truth.

No dissertation on the relationship in which professional men stand to each other would be complete without some reference to the subject of professional etiquette. We have heard etiquette condemned. We have been told of the triumph of prejudice and jealousy to the detriment of the welfare of client or patient. We have even heard whispers of the neglect of patients rather than the consultation with the rival practitioner which might have saved life. Such rumors—if, indeed, they are true

—are at best but exaggerated indications of exceptions which prove the rule. Etiquette gives honor where honor is due; it rightly exposes impostors. Etiquette appreciates ability and encourages merit; it scathingly condemns the individual and the society that live on borrowed plumes, assuming virtue if they have it not. Etiquette generously extends the arm of sympathy; it would rather cut off the right hand than by word or deed injure others for the sake of personal aggrandizement. Etiquette recognizes all honorable methods of advancement ; it rightly looks askance at questionable exped

such as are too frequently resorted the standard which unerringly gauge sional men. Above the level of the g is honorable and commendable ber ing and unworthy. In the Harveia Royal College of Physicians last C

this subject was so happily delineated that I cannot rain from quoting the words of the Harveian orator :-—" Professional etiquette really means the observance of those rules which distinguish a profession from a trade, which makes our callings honorable as well as honest, which check the art of advertisement and direct our ambition to obtaining the suffrages—not of the public which cannot—but of our profession which can— judge truly, rules of conduct which are, in fact, nothing but the carrying into daily practice of the golden rule, to do to others as we would they should do to us."





PLASTER CORNICES.

CORNICES are either plain or ornamented. In order to execute a cornice according to a given design, it is necessary to prepare a mould of several members, which mould is usually made of sheet brass, iron or steel, indented so as to represent exactly the forms and projections of the said members, and fixed into a wooden handle previously described. If the protection of the cornice exceeds 10 in., it is requisite to fix up wooden bracketing. to sustain the same. This consists of pieces of wood fastened to the wall on which the cornice is to be formed, about ft. apart, to which laths are to be nailed ; the whole is then covered with a rough coat of mortar, allowance being made for the thickness of the stuff necessary to form a cornice, for which

about 11/2 in. is generally sufficient. To run a cornice proper two workmen are necessary, who must be provided with a or tub of set or putty, and a quantity of plaster of F Previous to using the mould they gauge a straight line or so on the wall and ceiling, formed of putty and plaster, and extending so far on each as to answer to the top and bottom of cornice to be formed. On the screed thus formed on the w one or two slight pine straight-edges are nailed, and a notch chase being likewise cut in the mould, forms a guide to upon. When all is so far ready the putty is to be mixed v about one-third of plaster of Paris, and rendered of a semi-f consistency by the addition of clean water. One of the workers then takes two or three trowels full of the prepared putty on hawk, which he holds in one hand, whilst with the other spreads the stuff on the parts where the cornice is to be work the workman occasionally applying the mould, to see what more or less of the material is required. When a sufficient quantity has been put on to fill up all the parts of the mould, mould is worked backwards and forwards, being at the same time held firmly to the ceiling and wall, by which means superfluous material is removed, and the contour of the nice completed to the form required. Sometimes it is necessary to repeat this operation several times, in order to fill up parts as are deficient in the former application.





CEREMONIES ATTENDING THE LAYING OF

FOUNDATION STONES.



AMONG the papers read at a recent Congress of Anthropologists at Berlin, was one referring to the above subject. masons ways are a type of existence," said Goethe, and it shown by Herr Rowald how from the earliest ages his work started with due reverence, as if it united time with eternity; site consequently assumed more importance than an ordinary spot on the earth's surface. A king of Babylon considered was worthy of record that he restored a pyramid on the original foundations, To this day what is believed to be the foundation stone of Solomon's temple imparts a sort of sanctity to a mc The Capitol in Rome was four times erected on one site. two thousand years there has been a temple on the site where Cologne Cathedral stands. Auspicious days were selected laying foundation-stones, and a survival of the old custom exists in Hanover, for a builder hesitates about starting a building on a Monday. As far back as the times of the barbarians the foundation-stones were accompanied by records, which were sometimes placed in cylinders of clay. From the intet attached to the stones it is no wonder that it became a custom to employ more than one. In Eastern ruins four have found in positions corresponding with the cardinal points, in the Bible angle or corner-stones and foundation-stones a to be synonymous. In some Mediaeval buildings twelve laid, probably in honour of the Apostles. Money and precious stones were liberally employed as offerings, but in some part Asia and Africa it was not unusual to offer human sacrifices. Siam a case of the kind occurred recently, and the custom common when beginning Buddhist monasteries.





USEFUL HINTS.



Sandpaper is at present made with powdered glass and sand. Glass is readily pulverized by heating it red hot throwing it into water, and finishing the powdering in an m















ne boiler horse-power or its equivalent every hour general heat the amount of space given below in the different kinds of dwellings —Brick dwellings in blocks, as in cities, 000 cubic feet; brick stores in blocks, 15,000 cubic feet ; b dwellings exposed all round, 15,000 cubic feet ; brick m shops, factories, &c., 10,000 cubic feet ; wooden dwellings posed, 10,000 cubic feet ; foundries and wooden shops, cubic feet ; exhibition buildings, largely glass, 5,000 cubic The above table will answer in general for estimating, all men who figure very closely go into calculations in reg the actual amount of cooling surface which the building the sake of being on the safe side.

<article title=" MOISTURE AND MASONRY " author="">

MOISTURE AND MASONRY.—Water is the most destructive agent to construction. There is no quantity so small which repeated, is not ultimately fatal. The softest as well as the est material must yield to its insidious attack. No adage true than "Gutta cava lapidem." Our forefathers knew the connection between moisture and decay in soft material. H the buildings of the districts where the soft stones prevail, bottom courses of the walls will frequently be found to be of a hard and impervious stone, the strata of which are by the quarrymen foundation-stone. Walls always above ways below water may, under certain circumstances, be without mortar. When between wind and water they should.

