<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" THE BUILDINGS OF THE DOMINION " author="Stalker, G. F.">

THE BUILDINGS OF THE DOMINION.

By G. F. STALKER.



UNDER tins caption I wrote an article which appeared in the January number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The principal object of that paper was to advocate the advisability of establishing a system of competition for designs for our national buildings. It is satisfactory to know that the ideas expressed at that time have met with favor by some of our architects, and that there is a possibility of such action being taken as will bring about the desired change.



In the meantime the question has been taken up and definite proceedings instituted for the accomplishment of a similar object in the United States. In a recent number of the American Architect, and in the July issue (if the Forum, articles appeared on the subject with reference to the buildings erected by the government of the United States. And, better still, on June 16th of the present year, a hill was introduced into the House of Representatives, "To provide for the securing of plans and for the erection of the public buildings of the United States."

I am not vain enough to imagine that the articles and the bill referred to are the result of my January paper ; but it is very gratifying to find oneself in such good company, and voicing opinions in keeping with the spirit of the times. The crusade which is going on everywhere against monopolies must, in the end, be successful. And success will be swift and certain when resolute action is taken in regard to the breaking down of restrictions that have been placed around an art which can boast of ages of liberty. The experiment has been tried, both on this continent and in Europe, of satisfying the architectural aspirations of nations by limiting the designs for national buildings to the skill of one man, and it has failed in every case. The causes of the failure have not been the same in each instance, but the result has been the same—failure. And if the l)resent system is continued in Canada, we have before us the prospect of a continuance of architectural failures in our national buildings.

If the causes which have produced such unsatisfactory results can be ascertained, it may be suggested, a better era might be inaugurated by their removal, which would not necessitate an entire change of system. The writer of the article referred to in the Forum maintains that the causes of the fail-tires in the United States are, mainly, the incapacity of the government architect ; and, in addition, the impossibility for any man to give sufficient time to the preparation of his designs, and at the same time attend to the routine work of what must, of course, be a large department of the public service.

With the first cause of failure in the United States, we, in Canada, are in no way concerned. No one can lay any such charge against our present government architect. It would, in fact, be almost an impertinence to place him in the same category with the majority of architects who have occupied similar positions in other countries. And, more than that, his special fitness for the position makes it a matter of the greatest delicacy for us in this country to agitate for a change of system.

But the second cause of failure is of universal application. More than one architect has resigned his position on account of it and every architect worthy of the name has found it almost impossible for him to give time and study to the proper and more congenial part of his work as architect, while keeping pace with his routine duties. And theme is no way out of this difficulty. The mere multiplication of assistants and clerks will not overcome it, while it will materially increase the cost of working the department. So long as the one man system is maintained, the chief architect will find it necessary for him to give by far the greater portion of his time to routine business, a vast amount of necessary and important work of which the general public are profoundly ignorant ; while for that portion of his duties of which the public take cognizance, and by his success in which, in their judgment, he has to stand or fall, be has to snatch a few odd hours from the worry and irritation of accounts and departmental cross-purposes.

When the designs for our national buildings are, of necessity, under the present system, produced in such an atmosphere, it is surely no great matter of wonder that there should be an imperative demand for a change! If no other reason could be submitted than this, it would be sufficient to require it. For it must be evident that the object for which the system was instituted, namely, the retaining of the services of a great architect for designing our national edifices, is entirely frustrated by the conditions inseparably connected with such an office. We are, therefore, maintaining an expensive department in order that we may have a certain kind of work done in the best manner, but, from the very nature of the office, and the variety of necessary circumstances connected with it, we fail to obtain the accomplishment of its most important purpose.

Moreover, the establishment of the present system, some thirty years ago, was supposed and expected to be more economical than the ordinary method of securing the services of an architect. But experience has everywhere proved this also to be a fallacy. An examination into the matter proves, that, in the United States, what may be properly set down as architects' charges, in connection with the government buildings, amounts to about seven per centum and, in Canada, the charges exceed eight per centum. And this does not include, in either case, the cost of providing and maintaining office accommodation, fittings,

lighting, drawing materials, &c., which would amount to about one per centum more.

We are, therefore, paying about eighty per centum more for architects' services, tinder the present system, than we should pay if the work were done in the ordinary way ; and, as we have seen, we incur this excessive expenditure for an inferior service. That is to say, for a building costing $1,000,000, the arc

charges would amount to $50,000, according to the usual scale, but the cost to the country for architect's services, according to the l)resent system, would amount to $90,000.

But the greatest objection to the system lies in the fact that, by continuing it, we deprive ourselves of the opportunity of obtaining the best designs for out public buildings. This is at the bottom of the efforts now being made in the United States for a complete change of system. This brought about the change in England, and this has given rise to the desire in Canada—a desire which will, before long, develop into action—for a change in our system of securing plans, and of erecting our public buildings. And in the hope that measures will soon be adopted for carrying the purpose into effect in Canada, it may be of interest to consider the leading features of the bill now before the House (if Representatives in the United States.

It provides for the appointment (if a commission of public architecture, consisting of three architects, two engineers, and, as ex-officio members, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Supervising Architect of the Treasury, who shall procure designs and appoint architects for all buildings hereafter erected by the government. This commission shall select architects to submit designs in competition for all buildings costing $100,000 and over and they may appoint, without competition, an architect for buildings costing less than $100,000. The architects in every case must, of course, be well qualified men and, where a competition takes place, the successful competitor is appointed architect of the building on the usual terms, and the others receive an honorarium in proportion to the magnitude of the building. Power is vested in the commission for framing rules and regulations governing competitions, and the duties of the successful competitor are clearly set forth, and are in conformity with the usual professional practice.

Such is a brief outline of the American bill, and, with a few emendations, it would not be difficult to construct from it a measure that would be suitable to the exigencies of the Dominion of Canada. For we have seen that, in Canada, we have, as far as our national buildings are concerned, the same anomalies and the same failures as have occurred in the United States and in Europe. It surely cannot be said that we have less "sand" in us than the people of those countries, and that we are content to let things remain just as they are, though we know that the present system is pregnant with harm to our ait, amid discreditable to ourselves as Canadians? And we are not so stupid as to imagine that any tinkering of the present system will ever produce any material improvement. We are satisfied that experience proves this to be a physical impossibility. Neither do we blame or disparage anyone who has held the office of government architect. But the experience of England and other countries places it beyond all question, that if we obtained the designs for our national buildings by competition, we would not only have better public buildings, but we would elevate time standard of architecture generally throughout the Dominion.





LONDON PUBLIC LIBRARY COMPETITION.



The information has been received that the competition recently held for designs for a public library building for the city of London, Ont., has at last been decided. A Mr. Matthews, a young student of architecture, formerly of London amid Toronto, but now residing in New York, has been awarded first place in the competition, and will have the supervision of the work, which is to be commenced as soon as possible.



CANADIAN VS. FOREIGN CEMENT.



THE manufacturers of Canadian cement are protesting against the action of the Dominion Government in awarding a contract to a Montreal firm for 11,000 barrels of Belgian cement, in the face of the fact that cement of the best quality is now manufactured in Canada, and that the most of the Canadian cement works are at present shut down for want of orders. It is further pointed out that the stave mills in western Ontario are also closed down in consequence of the inactivity among the cement manufacturers who are purchasers of a large part of their product.

The protest of the cement manufacturers seems a reasonable one. Recent tests of the cement used in making concrete pavements in the City of Toronto, showed the cement made in Canada to be as durable, if not more so, than the foreign material. In view of this what necessity is there for the government engineers to pass by our home manufacturers. Mr. A. Blue, of the Ontario Department of Mines, in a paper read a few days ago before the Mining Association, made the surprising statement that of the 150,000 barrels of cement used in making concrete for street construction in Toronto, only 4,000 barrels had been native cement. There was, he urged, no reason why we should have to go abroad for Portland cement, as in Ontario we had an abundance of raw material for producing it.

