<doctype type="text">

REMARKS ON ESTIMATING.

<article title=" REMARKS ON ESTIMATING " author="">

As wooden buildings, either frame, balloon or plank, are mostly in vogue in rural districts, the country builder has more to do with them than with any other style of structure, so I will take as my model an ordinary balloon frame house in thc country, and which is supposed to Cost anywhere between $8oo and $3,000, though the method of estimating I am about to formulate will hold good for buildings costing more or less than the sums named.

We suppose the plans, elevation, details and specifications of a building are now before the estimator, and on which he is now figuring.

In making Out a "tickler," the estimator should use legal cap paper, using at first only every other line to make his list, as his first attempt will leave many omissions, which, as discovered, may be inserted on the blank lines tinder their proper heading. Having the paper ready, and any notes you may have prepared, head the first page " Preliminary," under which head may be written

Preparing grounds and staking out building (giving sup

     posed cost of every item.)	.

Laying out and grading for drains, &               

Miscellaneous expenses in securing  contract         

 The next heading should be

            MASON AND BRICKLAYER WORK.

— yards excavating	$

Carting and 1evelling	$

  cords of stone in foundation walk at — pcr cord..

Brick walls, piers and chimneys                 

Cellar floor, concrete or brick	$

Cesspool and drainage                                 

Laying tiles in hearth	$

Building fire-places and putting in grates           

Work and material around heater                  

                  CARPENTER WORK.

__- ft. in side, end and middle sills at —	$

— ft. in trimming, posts and plates at	$

— ft. in main, side and  tie girths	$

— ft. in first floor joists at

  ft. in second floor joists at

  ft. in ceiling joists                   

- ft. of studding in outside walls	$

  ft. of studding in gables.,,              

- — ft. of studding in inside partitions                       

  ft. of studding in braces and for doors and windows	$.

—	ft. of studding in common rafters          

—- ft. of hip, valley and jack rafters	$.....

-	ft. of trusses, purlins and collar beams       

—	ft. of outside sheeting                

—	ft. of inside sheeting                

—	ft. of roof sheeting                               ft. of gutter, lookouts, etc                       

ft. of floor lining                                    ft. of shiplap sheeting                

—	M.M. of dimension shingles at —          

—	ft. of siding (whatever kind) at -          

— ft. of battens, lattice, &c., at	.....

  ft. of furring and bridging at --.              

— ft. of fencing boards at —	...

Fence posts (state number) at	$. ...

Tarred or straw paper                           

To all these items add cost of labor in working and putting in place. Keep account of labor on separate sheets, preserving all for future reference.

M.M. of four ft. lath at	$.

	bbls. of lime at -	$.

	loads of sand at --	...

—	bbls. of plaster paris at —                    Water service (if any)                     

—	lbs. of shingle nails at —              

—	bush. of cow or goat hair                       

Add coloring matter if such is wanted for interior work or for rough-casting, also cost of pebble gravel.

Follow up this method of itemizing everything that will be used in the construction of the building, from the fittings of foundation to coping of chimney top, each class under its own heading. Under "Hardware" place number, description and price of locks if more than one kind give each a separate entry. The same with bolts, hangers, furniture, window locks, screws, wardrobe hooks, pulls, grates, brackets, sinks, and everything else in this department.

Under " Plumbing" enter price, description and quantity of piping required, taps, traps, closets, bowls, drains, ventilators, bath tubs, hot water boilers, and all other plumbing requisites with thc cost thereof.

Under "Joiners' Work," itemize everything that is to be finished in wood, classifying and describing everything, and giving price per piece or per foot, marking on margin of your paper a rough sketch of moulding, base, rail, baluster, or whatever else it may be. Do the same with any extra sash, doors or ornamental panels or newels. This precaution will serve you in future, and be handy to refer to on many occasions. Mantels, grilles and such like work may be entered in bulk, numbering the style of mantel or grille so that no mistake may occur. Stairs, with full description of riser, tread-strings and finish, may be entered at so much per step, or in bulk, either with or without rail and baluster and newels, making proper provision for landings or offsets. If paneled under soffit, make entry of same and fix price accordingly. Make special entries of labor required to lay down so many feet of this base, and so many feet of the other. Time fitting and hanging sashes, same for hanging and trimming doors, fitting up pantry, shelving and putting up hooks in closets, laying down floors, outside steps, posts, building veranadas, stoops or storm porches, cresting and putting up. Wood cornice—make diagram on margin, give dimensions and cost per foot. Wainscot, paneled ceilings, ornamental dados or fixed furniture, such as dressers, sideboards, cupboards, cabinets and hall racks, should be described and a sketch on the margin, with cost and style of finish. All other joiner work should be entered with description and cost.

When any tinsmith or sheet metal work is required, a full account of it, giving amount and quality of materials used, with cost per foot, if conductors, leaders or gutters, and per square if for roofing or like purposes. Tin used in valleys or for flashings should be enumerated with full cost.

Next comes the painter, decorator and finisher. Enter quality of paints and oil, number of coats, colors and cost per yard; style of finish, if on hardwood or stained pine; number of coats of varnish state if rubbed and polished, with cost of same; describe quality of glass, size, manner of glazing and cost per square. Itemize every particular and of every kind, teaming, carting away rubbish, cleaning up building, and everything where cost is attached.

Having now gone over the whole building, and itemized all that has suggested itself, go carefully over your work and look for omissions; if any are discovered, enter them at once under their proper heads. Read over your specifications again and again examine the plans, elevations and details, until you are convinced you have grasped every detail, then go to work and copy into a convenient blank book, the results of your work, leaving a wide margin for sketches, and a line or two between each entry, and you have a "tickler," a complete and permanent "reminder" for all sorts of wooden buildings costing no more than $3000.

Your first sheet answers for an estimate of the particular building you figured on, and, if you find you have made any mistakes as to price of work, or cost and quantity of material, correct in your book so that you will not bc misled the same way when estimating on another building.

It is usual in country places for the contractor to get the plasterer, the mason, the tinner, the plumber and the painter to give in an estimate on the work required of their various trades. This practice does very well, but it has the fault of throwing the whole responsibility of their work on the contractor without giving him a corresponding profit. It is better for the contractor to take thc whole work, then he is master of the situation, and in a position to make reasonable terms with the other tradesmen.

If space permitted, I might give a column of current prices for building work of various kinds, that might be useful to the country builder, but just now that is impossible. At some future time, however, I may take the subject up.

A.	Z. Z.



PERSONAL.

Three Toronto architects, Messrs. Webster, Bousfield and Woolnough, were called upon to serve on the grand jury at the recent assizes. This we take to be a recognition of the level-headedness of thc profession.

The sudden death of Mr. C. F. Fraser, late Minister of Public Works for Ontario, which took place at the Legislative Buildings in Toronto last month, has occasioned wide spread regret. It will be remembered that to thc unsatisfactory condition of Mr. Fraser's health was due his recent retirement as head of the Public Works department, which position he occupied for twenty years. The new Legislative buildings were erected under his direction. The late Mr. Fraser was one of the ablest and most honorable of the public men of this country.

The death is announced at Ottawa, at the age of 74 years, of Mr. John Bowes, who for 40 years was employed in the Public Works Department in that city, and was superintending architect of the St. Vincent de Paul and Kingston penitentiaries, as well as the library of Parliament.





ESTIMATING THE VALUE OF BUILDING STONE.—In determining the value of any description of stone for building purposes the inadequacy of tests by chemical analysis is pointed out in a recent paper by a British architect, and, as concerns the more detailed examinations resorted to, the crushing strength, he states, is nearly always in excess of requirements, and is, therefore, to be considered relatively unimportant the absorption test, however, gives a fair indication of the power of a stone to resist frost, and in stones of the same class is also a criterion of the crushing strength, which appears to be higher the less the percentage of water absorbed. Still more satisfactory results are obtainable by subjecting the stone, while thoroughly moist, to a freezing temperature, repeating the operation several times, and ascertaining the weight lost from the block. Another inaccurate assumption mentioned is that the specific gravity of a stone is proportional to the strength and still another is the conclusion that the higher the proportion of silica thc more durable the stone the incorrectness of this latter assumption being manifest, inasmuch as it would involve the assertion that all sandstones are better than limestones, or even than granite.

