<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS WIRE NAILS " author="">

MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS WIRE NAILS.

THE increasing use of wire nails to the exclusion of cut nails cannot be explained says the Architect, Builder and Decorator, by the rules that commonly govern the substitution of one line of goods for another which has had the field for so long as did the cut nails. It is no uncommon thing these days of advertising to see an old favorite driven from the market by a new and perhaps inferior article, through the judicious use of ink; while a really good article, well established in the esteem of the public, must be liberally advertised in order to hold its own. In this use of nails, however, no advertising seems to have been done, while what little investigation of the relative merits of the two kinds has been made, all seems to have given testimony in favor of the old style of nails. In spite of the fact that repeated tests have shown the cut nails to hold more than the wire nails of the same length and weight, and in spite of the weight of tradition on their side, which is usually of itself sufficient to hold the market for useful articles against any ordinary effort, the wire nails have pretty much driven the others out. Some dealers do not keep any considerable assortment of the cut nails, and others declare that they do not sell a fifth as many as of wire nails. It will not do to say that the favor shown by builders is all a mistake, and accept the testimony of the testing machines as altogether conclusive. There must be something upon which to found the very general belief prevalent among the people who use nails, that the wire nails are the better. Possibly the evidence of the retailer as to the relative condition of packing boxes put up with the two sorts of nails on their arrival at the end of their journey, may have weight. The difficulty the carpenter finds in pulling down his staging when built with the wire

nails may be evidence to him of their staying powers. Whatever the cause, he thinks the wire nails will hold more than the others. When the wire nails were first generally introduced, they had only cut nails of the very poorest material to compete with, but that is not the case now, or there is no difficulty in getting cut nails that will clinch almost as well as the old "wrought" variety. In the larger size nails, the number to the pound of a given length is about the same, but in the sizes more commonly used there is a considerable difference in favor of the wire nails—enough to make them the cheaper at anything like the same rate per pound. The present popularity of the wire nails is such that the cut nails must be specified if one has any hopes of securing their use on buildings. T hat the cut nails of a given length are better for the general purposes of a building, there would seem to be no reasonable ground for doubting, being as they are, so much stronger when driven home. Nails are not expected to hold in a building after they are half pulled out. The "coated" or "cemented" wire nails would probably be of advantage in some building work, as although a more slender wire than the ordinary nails of the same length, their hold when driven home is allowed by all who have tested or used them to be phenomenal. So far as we have observed, they are, however, hardly known among builders. For such places as the lathing of an ordinary ceiling they would add greatly to the security.





A method of drawing designs on glass with an aluminum pencil has recently been brought out in France. This metal, like cobalt and some others, has the property of leaving a metallic trace, like that of a lead pencil, on glass quite free from grease, and the trace is so adherent as to be practically permanent if not removed by hydrochloric acid. The pencil employed has a rotary point, which is found to make the metal adhere better than a fixed point, as in the ordinary pencil.

<article title=" HOW SLATE IS MINED " author="">

HOW SLATE IS MINED.

The manner in which slate is mined and cut up for purposes to which it is applied is a process that is known to only a few people, because slate is not found in many places in this country, its principle source being in upper New England and Pennsylvania. It is not taken out of shafts but is quarried out of big holes in the earth.

The slate is blasted out in huge blocks, and is hoisted out by steam and turned over to the men who know how to reduce it to the proper size. Huge blocks of it are taken in hand by these workmen ,who cut a niche into one end of each piece. Then they take a chisel and a mallet, and they are so skillful in directing their blows that they can split the blocks of slate in almost any way they please.

If you watch the slab on which one of them is working you will see a little hair line running through it, and presently the block will fall apart on either side of this mark. The workman will make this line straight through the middle or to either corner just as he likes. I do not know just how he does it, but he invariably accomplishes what he sets out to do.

The smaller pieces thus produced are taken in hand by another set of men, who split them up into sheets of the proper thickness for roofing slate. This they do with a long-bladed instrument about the shape of a putty knife, but many times larger, and if you saw them do it you would marvel how they got the sheets off without breaking them, and also how they could split them so thin. Some of these men can take a sheet of slate only one inch thick and split it thirty-two times. The usual number of divisions is sixteen. These sheets are taken and cut into squares by machinery.

Wherever there are slate quarries you will find a great many Welshmen, for the best slaters come from Wales. Boys follow the trade of their fathers, and there are whole families and settlements who know no other means of earning a living.

—Exchange.





A size of shellac varnish would be useful on a fresh wall. Ordinary liquid wood filler is often used for this purpose. A coat of boiled oil is preferred by many painters for a size. But these oily surfaced sizes are hardly adapted for wallpaper, unless cut on surface with sandpaper. For water colours a varnished or painted wall is always an ideal wall, because of the absence of suction.

Hayes' Patent Steel Lath

HAS NO EQUAL IN ANY PARTICULAR













Used in more important buildings...

...THAN...







all other styles of metal lathing combined.





SOLE MANUFACTURERS







THE METALLIC ROOFING Co.

OF CANADA, LIMITED.

RANCH OFFICE:	HEAD OFFICE:

	706 Craig Street	82 to 90 Yonge Street

	MONTREAL	TORONTO

Send for Samples and Prices 

