<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

The next annual meeting of the above Association is announced to be held in this city on Thursday, Oct. 4th and 5th, inst., in the rooms of the Association, New York Life Building. The following is the programme of the proceedings

THURSDAY, OCT. 4th H— 10.00 a. m.—Annual meeting, election of officers and routine business in rooms of Association; 5.30 p.m. —Reading of papers in same place 8.oo p.m.—Opening of exhibition of drawings and conversazione.

FRIDAY, OCT. 5TH.-1.3O p.m.—Visit to the Redpath Library, Erskine Church, Chapel of the Sacred Heart, Power House of the Montreal Street Railway.

A photographic group of the members of the Association resident in Montreal is being prepared by Messr. Wm. Notman & Son for which forty-two signatures have been procured and which will be presented to the members resident in Quebec, at the annual meeting.

The Association will hold an exhibition of architectural drawings in connection with their annual meeting in the galleries of the Art Association, Phillips Square, from the 4th to the 11th day of October.

The Council of the Association are associated in the holding of this exhibition by the Art Association of Montreal, who have kindly granted the use of their gallery for the purpose, and have promised their assistance and co-operation in promoting the exhibition.

The drawings are to be pen and ink or colour perspectives or elevations of modern original designs or sketches in ink or colour of old work, and in all cases the drawings are to be suitably framed.

Drawings are to be addressed to the Art Association, Phillips Square, and delivered there not later than the 29th September, and removed immediately after thc close of the exhibition, the delivery and removal to be at the expense of the exhibitor.

The Council will take every care of the drawings while in their custody but they will be unable to effect an insurance upon them or be liable for damages that may occur.

Messrs. J. Venne and A. T. Taylor have been appointed by the Association a committee in association with Messrs. Wm. Brymner and N. Bourrassa and one member appointed by the Art Association, to select and hang the drawings sent for exhibition.

It was resolved at a recent meeting of the Council that the members of the Council along with Messrs. J. W. Hopkins, V. Roy, A. Raza and A. F. Dunlop be a general committee to make arrangements for the exhibition and conversazione.

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. <article title=" AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION " author="">

The above Association will assemble in annual convention in this city from the 25th to the 28th inst. The Association is representative of the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Dr. E. P. Lachapelle, of this city, has the honor of being President of the Association this year. A number of papers on sanitary and hygienic subjects will be presented at the approaching meeting.



THE CITY BUILDING BY-LAW.

<article title=" THE CITY BUILDING BY-LAW " author="">

In a recent issue, the Insurance and Finance Chronicle of this city published an article criticising the existing city building by-laws which it states are entirely inadequate for protection against fire. Although it must be recognized that our building by-law contains many defects, as the building inspector admitted when interviewed on the subject, they nevertheless possess many points that if observed would I think greatly add to the security of our flimsily built tenement houses and their contents. There are no set sizes as to dimensions of dwelling blocks it is true, but section 12 of by-law No. 107 passed in 1877 requires that when "rows or blocks of dwelling houses, stores or warehouses, are built, each tenement, store or warehouse shall be separated by a division wall of brick or stone, subject as to elevation and thickness to provisions of sections 11, 14, and 15 of this by-law," and moreover, section 11 therein referred to calls for the carrying of these fire walls over roof and for coping with incombustible material. If all buildings were built strictly in accordance with this by-law the block of tenements could no longer bear that name, but each tenement or store on its horizontal projection would be a distinctly separate and complete building, with no lateral communications whatever. Although architects are aware of the existence of this by-law, I saw a building recently going up on St. James street west, containing two stores on the ground floor with two tenements above; these two tenements and stores were simply divided by a common wooden studding partition all the way up from cellar to roof. In that same building also, I noticed that instead of putting in a trimmer around the chimney for supporting the joists, the joists ran right into

the chimney and came within five inches of the interior of the flue in spite of the by-law which distinctly forbids this. Numerous other infractions could be cited, amongst which may be stated the building of a single flue to a chimney used by more than one tenement or store, notwithstanding the by-law provides for a separate flue to each tenement or store. The latter infraction is almost of daily occurrence, responsibility for this conditions of affairs should be traced and a reform instituted. It is a well known fact that very often a building Permit is only obtained when the building is almost completed. As to the thickness of brick walls, it is amply provided for in the table set forth in the said by-laws. A part of the present by-law which I think ought to be amended is the clause permitting the building of tenement blocks of wooden Plank or frame, enclosed with brick. This section of the by-law says that such buildings shall not exceed two stories and a mansard roof in front, and three stories in rear, the highest point of the roof not exceeding 34 feet from the level of the foot-path. It is obvious that it is quite ineffective to have fire walls dividing each tenement if the exterior walls are allowed to be built of three inch plank. It is in this class of buildings that improvements should be made, and no buildings in the future should be allowed to be built of plank or frame. The Building Inspector has prepared a new by-law which is based on the existing building I)y-laws of the largest American cities, and which I hope will effect an improvement in the class of buildings heretofore put up in this city, and especially the poorer class inhabited by the working people. This by-law is now in the hands of a committee of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, to whom it has been sent by the Fire Committee for suggestions. Let us hope to see it adopted anti properly enforced at an early (late.





NEW CHIMNEY AT TORONTO RAILWAY COMPANY'S POWER HOUSE.

\VE present to our readers herewith an illustration of what ~s claimed to be the tallest chimney in Canada, its height being 250 feet. It has recently been completed at the power house of the Toronto Railway Company, under superintendence of Mr. James Hill, and was commenced during the early part of last March. Excavations were made to a depth of 18 feet, at which point solid rock was struck. The concrete foundation, 40 feet square, is built on the rock, and was tapered up till it stood 24



























































feet square at the surface of the ground, where the chimney proper was begun. For the first fifty feet the chimney is square, the top which is 18 feet 3 inches in diameter, being capped with cast iron. The inside diameter is 12 feet. A ladder made of U-shaped irons is provided as a means of ascending, the ends of the irons being anchored in brick. The smoke from a 10,000 horse-power of boilers can easily be carried by this chimney. An excellent view of the City of Toronto is afforded from its pinnacle.



In answer to an inquiry as to the treatment of the internal walls of a hospital ward, a correspondent to the British Medical journal says that of course a great deal depends on the material of which they are constructed but if they are plastered there can be but little doubt that a hard oil paint, or paint coated with varnish, forms the best finish, as it can easily be dusted or washed. As regards color that will depend to some extent on the amount of window space; where there is plenty of light one can afford to make the walls of such a tone as to be restful to the eyes; a very common defect in hospitals is making the walls too light. Ordinary hanging pictures are certainly inadmissible; if they were properly dusted, which they never are, they would be knocked to pieces in three months. If pictures are desired, certain spaces should be reserved for the purpose, and the pictures should be pasted to the wall and varnished over. The same should be done with all tables of rules and regulations which one so often sees hanging on cards. They should all be pasted to the wall and varnished over, the object being that the wall and all upon it should be cleaned at one sweep.

