<doctype type="text;plate">MR. A. C. HUTCHISON, R.C.A.



<article title="Mr. A.C. Hutchison, R.C.A." author="">ALEXANDER Cowper Hutchison, R.C.A., was born in Montreal in 1838. His father was a builder, and in company with James Morrison, erected some of the principal buildings in Montreal. Mr. Hutchison, after leaving school, entered as an apprentice to his father as stone cutter, also attending a private school during the first two years of his apprenticeship. At the age of twenty he was entrusted with the superintendency of the stone work of Christ Church Cathedral, known to be the finest example of Norman Gothic on the continent. He afterwards removed to Ottawa, where he was engaged for three or four years on the Parliament Buildings, in change of the stone cutting. He then left the capital and returned to Montreal to take charge of drawing classes in connection with the Mechanics' Institute. He afterwards conducted the same classes in connection with the Board of Arts and Manufactures, and while engaged at this work he decided to commence practice as an architect in 1863, and soon secured a large practice. He was appointed a member of the Royal Canadian Academy by the Marquis of Lorne in 1880





<article title="The Size of Windows" author="">THE SIZE OF WINDOWS.



IT seems a self-evident proposition, yet one that is continually

disregarded, says Aston w Webb that the size of the windows must he regulated by the size of the rooms that they are intended to light, yet nothing is inure common than this example, where three windows all of the same size, "to preserve the uniformity of the elevation," as the speculative builder says, light three rooms of totally different sizes, the result being that one bedroom is fairly lighted, the other is very dark, while the dressing-room is so light that you hardly dare dress in it without the blind being drawn down as you seem to be quite out in the open air. It is extremely difficult to lay down any law giving exact rules as to the proportion of lighting space necessary for a given room—much depends, for instance, on the position of the light, In the well-known example of the Pantheon at Rome the building is amply lighted by a small circular opening in the roof. The cubic contents of this building ate given at 1,934,460 cubic feet, and the area of the circular opening only 572 feet, or about one-

<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



THE Canada Life Assurance Company's building, the most important building being erected in Montreal this year, is fast approaching completion. The contractors certainly deserve praise for the celerity with which they have conducted their work, affording a remarkable contrast to the slowness of completion of the unfortunate Street Railway Company's building, the structural iron of which is not even yet completed, although it was commenced long before the first named structure.

As the roof of the Canada Life Building is now being put on, it is safe I think to indulge in a few comments regarding it, as what remains to be done will not materially alter its exterior appearance. It is another proof of how an inferior design can be made to look well, and the influence it may have on the decision of unprofessional judges in competitions, when it is effectively rendered in perspective by an artist.

I hear that designs much superior in composition to the accepted design were submitted by Montreal architects in private competition, but unfortunately their authors overlooked the absolute necessity of rendering their drawings brilliantly and effectively in order to be successful under thc circumstances.

In the upper storeys there are faults violating the most elementary rules of art, as, for instance, the idea of superposing two rows of columns on top of one another, with the lower row much thinner and weaker in construction, and more delicate in design than the one above.

The mouldings, although good enough in profile, are so placed

MR. A. C. Hutchison, R.C.A.

President Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

third the amount required had the lighting been from the side. The rule said to have been adopted by Sir William Chambers is to add the depth and height together and an eighth of the result will give the width of the window. Gwilt gives, as a general rule, 1 foot super. of light in a vertical wall to every 100 cubic feet in the room. Robert Morris says that the superficial area of the window should equal the square root of the cubical contents of the room. This, however, though no doubt approximately trite, must evidently be open to large variations according to the width of the street, and especially according ing to the aspect and the climate, and the exact size of certain windows to suit certain shaped rooms can only be learned by observations and experience. It should also be borne in mind at certain rooms will require more lighting than others a drawing-room more than a dining-room, a dressing-room more than a bedroom, and so on. And if this is carefully attended to and, of course, taste and discrimination used), the elevation will

least be an honest and truthful one, and you will not find the principal window on the ground floor lighting, as is often the case, a cloak-room or a water-closet.—Carpenter and Builder.

arranged as LV make the building



 appear to have been erected in sections, and the parts present no relation to one another. The doorway is also much too low for a building of such importance. Altogether the design does not reflect any more credit on the architect than the Ontario Parliament Buildings, and it certainly does not seem to be necessary to look outside of this country for architects to design our most important buildings. if the public feels satisfied with such architecture.



An exhibition exclusively confined to artists and works of art will open in the Drill Shed on the 14th inst., for the benefit of Notre Dame hospital. Most of our painters in this province are represented, but unfortunately the architects did not see fit to avail themselves of the opportunity to bring their work before the public, which, I believe, is the only and surest way of elevating thc architectural profession to the level of that of thc painters in the eyes of the public. Artists across the ocean have gained their prominence by exhibiting their work constantly before the public and by establishing permanent exhibitions; we must do likewise if we desire that art in all its branches be as

honored and respected as it is in the old countries. Apart from the paintings are quite a number of water colors, but the architectural section will be represented only by "A Vestry," a school " project" of the "Ecole des Beaux-Arts," by J. 0. Marchand, who exhibits also a water color representing a racingyacht.

Messrs. Patterson & Wallace, architects and engineers, 217 St. James street, announce their intention of opening evening classes, in which students of architecture and engineering may receive instruction in drawing, mathematics and designing.



The Toronto Radiator Manufacturing Co. are said to have sold in one week in New Brunswick one hundred and ninety-five radiators.

Mr. D. L. Brown, formerly of Deseronto, Ont., has the contract for building a large school house at St. johnsville, N. Y.

A new City hall is being built at Quebec to cost $117,000. Sixty thousand dollars have already been expended, with only $130 for extras.

A quarryman named Fairweather has brought action against thc Owen Sound Stone Co. for $10,000 damages, sustained by him when working for the Company. He was drilling out a charge when it exploded, causing the loss of his eyes. The case was tried once, but a new trial has been ordered.

