<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.



A COUNTRY RAILWAY STATION.—F. S. BAKER, ARCHITECT.



PROPOSED HOUSE FOR MR. A. A. DIXON, TORONTO.-—

SIDDALL & BAKER, ARCHITECTS.



ST. MARY'S SCHOOL, HALIFAX FAX, NOVA SCOTIA.—DAVID



STERLING, ARCHITECT



THE building is situated near to the Cathedral, and faces on Barrington street. It is Constricted of pressed brick with granite facings.

COLLEGIATE INSTITUTE, SARNIA, ONT.,—S. H. TOWNSEND,



ARCHITECT, TORONTO.



'[HIS building, erected in 1890, is constructed of plain brick with tile gables. It was built by day labor, a local builder, Mr. Proctor, acting as clerk of the works. The cost was about $25,-ooo. The building is 80 x 95 feet in size, and in plan is acknowledged  to be particularly well adapted to the requirements. In the basement are large play rooms to meet the needs of the students for recreation when the weather is unfavorable to outside sports. The top story of the building is occupied by an assembly hall, with paneled walls and open timbered roof, and fitted up with dressing rooms and stage.





<article title="Side Talks with the Builder" author="">SIDE TALKS WITH THE BUILDER.



THERE are many builders who have a practical knowledge of brickwork and know how to construct an excellent piece of brickwork, writes R. N. Buell in The Brickbuilder, but are careless or ignorant regarding that most important part of every building, and that upon which their structure depends most entirely. A poor stone wall has been the cause of ruining many a noble and otherwise perfect edifice. Let me give my brother masons a few pointers on laying stone—not that I shall attempt in these columns to give an exhaustive treatise on the subject, but simply to place before him a few simple rules, which may possibly be the means of saving him many dollars.

Of whatever quality the stone may be of which a wall is to be built, it should consist as much of stone and as little of mortar as possible. If it be inferior in durability and power in resisting the action of the atmosphere, etc., to the mortar, besides the certain fact that the mortar will yield until it has set hard, and so far act injuriously, no ulterior good is gained; and if the stone be the more durable material, the more of it that enters into the wall the better. Indeed, in rough walling, if the stones be laid so that the most prominent angles on their faces come into actual contact, the interstices being occupied by mortar, it will be better than if a thick, yielding mass were allowed to remain between them. Absolute contact, however, should not be permitted any more than in brickwork, lest the shrinkage of the mortar in drying leave the stones to such unequal bearing as the prominent parts alone would afford.

Stone being generally of a less absorbent nature than brick, it is not a matter of so much importance that it be wetted before setting. Nevertheless, adhesion on the part of the mortar is more certain and more complete if the stones be worked in, at least, a damp state.

Bond is not of less importance in stone walling than in bricklaying. Instead of carefully making the joints recur one over the other, in alternate courses, as with bricks and gauged stones, the joints should as carefully be made to lock so as to give the strength of two or three courses or layers between a joint in one course, and one that may occur vertically over it in another. In bonding through a wall or transversely, it is much better that many stones should reach two-thirds across alternately from the opposite side than that there should be a few through stones, or stones extending the whole thickness of the wall. Indeed, one of the many faults of stone masons is that of making a wall consist of two scales or thin sides with through walls now and then laid across to bind them together, the core being made of mortar

small rubble merely. This is a mode of structure that could be carefully guarded against. There is no better test of

Eworkman's tact and judgment in rubble walling than the building  of a dry wall, or a wall without mortar, affords.

Walls are frequently built with mortar that without it would

·we fallen down under their own weight in a height of 6 feet in





sequence of their defective construction, thus rendering it dent that they are only held together by the tenacity of the

mortar, which is very seldom an equivalent for a proper bond of' stone. Masons are very apt to set thin, broad stones on their narrow edges to show a good face, by which the wall is injured in two ways. It tends to the formation of a mere case on the surface of a wall, and it for the most part exposes the bed of the stone to the atmosphere, as a stone is more likely In be broad in the direction of its bed than across it.





<article title="St. John, N.B., Exhibition" author="">ST. JOHN, N. B., EXHIBITION.



THE recent Exhibition at St. John, N. B., reflected credit upon the Maritime Provinces, and attracted not only local exhibitors, but manufacturing companies in the upper provinces. The attendance was worthy of the interesting character of the exhibition.

The Toronto. Radiator Manufacturing Company, and the Toronto Steel Clad Bath Company had interesting exhibits of their goods at this Exhibition. The exhibits were in charge (if their St. John agents.

Amongst other exhibits of materials relating to architecture and building was a display of memorial art glass by Mr. Frank Reardon, of Halifax, N. S., and an exhibit by the Mosley Folding Bath Tub and Water Heating Company, of Chicago. Mr. Fiank Welliday, of St. John, N. B., is the Company's Canadian agent.



<article title="Prestige" author="">PRESTIGE.



IN an interesting paper on the subject in Fame, Mr. Milton J. Platt says

"Here is a simple question. Do advertisers for high class patronage pay sufficient attention to the prestige of the mediums they use?

Prestige is not a mushroom growth, it cannot be bought it must be earned. Space in the medium possessing it is worth to the seeker for a high grade of patrons an incalculably greater sum than space in the medium without it. This is also true, even though the latter's circulation equaled that of the former, and even though it were claimed for it, that 'it goes to the same class of readers.'

"Webster tells us that prestige at one time meant 'delusion trick; illusion.' Those definitions are no longer applicable to the word itself, but they very nicely express some of the qualities attaching to more than one publication which claim kinship with those commonly known to be above suspicion. The present use of the word implies weight of influence drawn from past success; expectation of future achievements founded upon those already accomplished. '[his is the prestige the wise advertiser will look for, and the names of the magazines or other publications possessing it will at once occur to him."





<article title="the Widow's Tenth" author="">THE WIDOW'S TENTH.



A CASE of unusual character came before Judge Ferguson at Osgoode Hall, Toronto, the other day, in the way of appeal from the finding of the master. Mrs. Nightingale, of North Toronto, filed a claim against the executors of her husband's estate, under an agreement which had been made between her husband and herself when he commenced business as a brick maker, to the effect that she should receive one brick in every ten manufactured  The judge decided in her favor.





The case of Mr. Neelon, contractor for the Toronto Court House, against the city of Toronto, has reached the Supreme Court at Ottawa, where it is now being argued.

Supplementary letters patent have been issued to the Hamilton Bridge Works Company authorizing an increase of the capital from $10,000 to $150,000

Complaint is made that a contract for $1,099 worth of sewer pipe fir Victoria, B. C., was made by the sewer committee without the consent of the city council, or advertising for tenders. The rule is that no liability exceeding $50 can be incurred except by the council as a whole.

Joseph Larnarche, contractor, is suing the city of Montreal for $7,500 damages for injuries sustained by him in May last, when he fell and broke his leg. He claims heavy damages on the ground that it interfered very much with his business and that he suffered for the above amount.

