<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



been introduced anywhere is described in the Manufacturers  Record. At Norfolk, Virginia, a plant has been set in operation for making paving blocks out of the grass which grows on salt water marshes. The grass is subjected to heavy pressure, which forms it into large blocks, which are cut by circular saws into smaller blocks, 1/2 inches thick, provided with strong wires, which run lengthwise. These blocks are then subjected to a bath in three tanks of different kinds of oil, which renders the fiber supple. A pavement of this material has been tested for over a year in Philadelphia, on one of the busiest streets near the stockyards, and with satisfactory results. It is smooth, noiseless, and horses cannot slip on it. Large contracts for these blocks are said to have been secured from New York and Pittsburgh  We must, however, class ourselves as doubters as to the wearing qualities of such a material, without further information.

But our readers will perhaps smile with incredulity when we mention another material for paving, which, if such a reputable journal as the Literary Digest is to be believed, has been successfully tested. In the southern states, where sugar manufacturing is carried on, there are millions of gallons of molasses produced, which, after supplying the market, remain over and become a waste product. The head chemist of a refinery at Chino, California, Mr. E. Turke, was led to make an experiment with this molasses, and had a walk one thousand feet long made between the factory and the main street, mixing sand with the molasses and putting it down in the same manner as asphalt. It dried quickly, became hard and remained so, the sun making it harder instead of softening it. A block of the composition two feet long and one foot wide was subjected to severe tests, being laid with its ends resting only an inch or two at each end on supports. When struck in the middle with a heavy hammer it showed no sign of cracking or bending. Notwithstanding this test, we can hardly imagine molasses coming into general use as a paving material.

It is clear from what we have stated that we have not yet passed the experimental stage in the matter of pavements.



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS

RESIDENCE, BISHOP STREET, MONTREAL, FOR DR. D. F.



GURD —ROBERT FINDLAY ARCHITECT.



FACTORY BUILDING FOR The METALLIC ROOFING co.,



TORONTO —HENRY SIMPSON, ARCHITECT.



PROPOSED BUSINESS PREMISES, VANCOUVER, B. C. R.



MACKAY FRIPP, F.R.I.B.A., ARCHITECT.



TOWN HALL, CARLETON PLACE, ONT.— G. W. KING, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.



The town of Carleton Place, ONT., is to have a town and fire hall, which will be erected on Bridge street, the main business street of the town, at the south end of the iron bridge across tile Mississippi river. The size of the building will be 61.6 X 104 ft., without projections. The north-west corner is cut off by the river, making the Bridge street frontage only 52 feet.

The material will be limestone, in random rubble masonry, with Beckwith freestone trimmings, slate root' and galvanized iron cornices. The wall fronting on the river will be concrete to ordinary water line, dimension stone in cement to one foot above high water mark, which is the underside of the basement floor. The floors will be of slow burning construction, metal ceilings

throughout, divided into panels by wood m mouldings. Basement will contain caretaker's rooms with separate entrance, cells for male and female prisoners, with separate staircase to court room and entrance. Also pump room, boiler room, furnace and coal room. On the ground floor is clerk's office, with vault, having outside light, mayor's room, committee rooms, council and court room combined, public library with reading and smoking rooms, separate entrance to hall staircase and ticket office. In rear is an engine house 26 x 65 inside, with Mezzanine flat under stage containing firemen's' recreation room, gymnasium, and lavatory with 11 shower bath. On the first floor will be the public hall, seating 800 with gallery seating 250, Stage 3 31 x 65 fitted with the latest improvements and n nearly equal in equipment to a regular theatre stage. All principal rooms will be finished in oak, the others in pine. It will be steam heated, with electric bells and electric light. Cost, including river foundations, $25,000. M. Ryan, of Smith's Falls is the contractor.





<article title="The New Globe Building" author="">THE NEW GLOBE BUILDING.

A PRINTING office is generally considered a hazardous fire risk but the new Globe building ill Toronto, to replace that destroyed by fire last January, now rapidly approaching completion, will be tire resisting. It stands on the corner of Yonge and Melinda streets, upon the same site and occupying precisely the same space as the old building, but is very much more substantial. It is of skeleton construction, similar to the new Simpson building further up the same street, but all the columns are built into the brick walls, and the floor beams are encased in concrete. The interior is finished in plaster instead of metal sheeting as before. The interior arrangements are much the same as in the old building, the only feature of essential difference which will strike  on entering being an

iron stair—case in the business

office leading to the upper storeys. Some of the mechanical departments, however, such as the stereotyping room, will be shut off so as to prevent the spread of fire, should one break out. Only he Yonge street end is designed to be fire proof, the part fronting on Jordan street, which is cut off by a lane arched overhead, and which will be rented, being of ordinary construction. The building is so planned that two additional storevs may be added in the future. It will be one of the most convenient and best equipped newspaper offices on the continent. Burke & Horwood are tile architect





<article title="A Hamilton Boy's Success" author="">A HAMILTON BOY'S SUCCESS

ARCHIE Rigg, a Hamilton boy and resident of that city up to a short time ago, has made himself prominent in St. Louis in recent architectural competitions. He prepared plans for five competitions and was successful in winning one first and one second, while dozens of the leading architects of St. Louis failed to get a place. His plans for a $25,000 residence were considered the best and were accepted, winning for him the cash prize of $100, in addition to which the firm he is with gets tile superintendence of the work. In a competition for an $85,000 office building he won second prize, capturing the St. Louis Competition Club's bronze medal. J. L.



L).	McCarthy, architect, and F. ,J. W. Hirst, engineer, as chairman and secretary of the Competition Club, write saying that Rigg's work cannot be given too great praise. As Archie is but a boy yet, a brilliant future seems to be in store for him,

