<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND builder)

	PROVINCE OF	Quebec ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECT



The series of monthly dinners arid Course of lectures for the winter were inaugurated on the Roth December A number of the members dined together at tire St. Lawrence Hall and afterwards adjourned to the rooms of tire Association, New York Life Building, when a lecture was given by thc president, Mr. A. C. I Hutchison, of Ancient RoIlte,' illustrated by a large number of excellent lime light views. Tile lecturer began by making of the history of Rome and each view as it passed on the curtain in a clear and interesting manner Mr. Hutchison having Dassecl the greater part of last winter in Italy and Sicily studying the ancient monuments, proved to his audience, who thoroughly enjoyed his lecture, to be very well acquainted with his subject. Mr. A. T. Taylor, vice—president, was in thc chair, and there was a good attendance of members and students. On motion of Mr. J. Venne, seconded by Mr. Theo. Daoust, a vote of makes was accorded the lecturer for his paper.

 Future gatherings have been arranged for the second Tuesday of I he month during this season, with the following program

Jair. 14, Mr. R. Findlay, Old Colonial Architecture (with illustrations) March moth, Mr. J. Venne, The Making of Plans for a Building ( with illustrations) April m4th, Mr. W. E. Doran, Truth in Architecture. Tire February meeting has not yet

been definitely	arranged for



The following examiners have better appointed for the examinations to but held during the coming year For Montreal, Messrs.

A.	C. Hutchison A. T. Taylor J. Venne for Quebec, Messrs. J. F. Peach) , II Staveley and C. Baillairge. Examination-, will take place this winter in Quebec for admission to study and registration on the 29th 30th and 31st January One months notice is required to be given the secretary by intending candidates.

The Association has petitioned the Attorney-General for the repeal of the law known as the Auger Bill, and for substituting for it the law which was in for e hr fort the Auger law was known or that in default of its in pt al, that tile following amendments be made to it 1st. That the rights s of the lenders remain privileged and free of all proceeding which h would I end to delay their recovering the amount of the bait and. That it diseriminatiott be made it this law for anybody except for the laborer. 3rd. That the time where a building can be legally completed be clearly defined.

The proposed building by—laws which were prepared in English by a committee composed of members of tile Association appointed by the Council at the request of the municipal authorities, have been translated into French by the latter and retorted to the Association for comparison and further revision, which has just been completed It is hoped that t Iris by-law will be pass with— On amendment at air early date, as the remedy is greatly needed, and Montreal could then be classed among the best government cities as regards the erection of its buildings.







<article title="Correspondence – A Protest" author="">A PROTEST.

'IORONTO, Dec. 3rd, 1895



In the Editor of the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER.



SIR Will you kindly favor me with space in your paper to cite a prevailing grievance which is as time advances becoming more and more pronounced. It is the practice of government employees with a permanent salary, to complete against architects who have only their profession. Men holding positions it the government service are frequently employed as architects by some of our largest corporations, and others.

Now is this fair is this just to the architect, the government amid the public ? I and others think trot, arid know that if tire matter was brought to the notice of the Minister of Public Works he would not countenance it, for if I am correctly informed employees of the Department are not at liberty to carry on a private business. It is in reason that such should he tire case, for it is impossible for any crime titan to attend to two separate business at tire satire time, and it is self—evident thccgggggat a marl carrying on a personal business cannot keep his mind from dwelling on it at. all times, which would in the case interfere with the successful discharge of tire government business. It is not improbable that during some part of tire day Ire will require to be on the works to give a decision on a critical point of construction which is not understood try tire contractor. This cannot wait until lie is liberated from business when and where is it done if not on the works, directly after it is discovered? It is also a known fact that

plans prepared by one of these merits have been figured on by contractors inn tire government office. Their methods it getting patronage are trot just to tire professor to which the imagine tire) have a right for becoming. They make capital of thc fact that I they do it after hours, have no office expertise, and thrust have constructional ability or they could not hold their present sent sit situations Otis. I have never heard what claim they take to be designers ;. they are wise if they do not lay stress on that.

These methods of doing business are highly detrimental trial tint the professional, to say nothing of the effect oil the character of the melt who resort to them. I cannot longer withhold my protest at seeing the professor pulled down from its hitherto high standard as the rightist and noblest art in the universe by such uteri, for a mere monetary consideration, for I have no doubt that if they could not add to their munificent salaries I hey would not do tire work at all. If they would ever have the decency to maintain tire recognized schedule of professional charges, it would place us of an equal footing in ant unequal race. Then tire public would probably give their commission for architects who could devote their time to their client s interests, which would necessarily in architects whose more is their own.

Very truly yours,

C ONN.





<article title="Toronto Sketch Club" author="">TORONTO SKETCH CLUB.

A meeting was held in the office of Messrs. Darling, Spmoatt & Pearson on Tuesday eveutitig, Nov. 19, when a Sketch Club

orgatrized for the purpose of smudvitrg desigit. Tins club differs from tIre olml architectural clubs to a great extent. In the preceding clubs, lectures, classes, etc., were of tire first importance while desigir was coirsidered a secontlary matter. Tire relative merits of classes for lectures aird clesigir were frill v tliscussed at tins irteetimig and it was resolved that design was tire most nieces— sary fritretion of air architect arid more attention sltould be paid to this subject than is usually taken elm by students. 'lime study of coir— struction cair be carried crit privately as bin oks give all tIre infor— mation trecessary tin make an architect expert in that litre. With clesigir it is differeirt. A clesigir may be prepared at hroirre, but it is absolutely necessary if time student is to advance that Iris the— sign be criticized by sontre onme competent to do so. A designitrg climb of sonte kitrd is, thietefore, wirat a student should attend, so thrat time faults or merits of Iris chesigir tnay be pointed out. it was decided tcr have the meetings as inrfornrral as possible aird arty poitit about a desigir opeirly disemissech. In order to obviate tIre expense of running tire CiLib, it was decided to Irold tIre meetings in the offices of tine numerous arclritects who would fhvor the Chill) iir this particutitrr. The architect at whose office tire meeting is held will act as eritie (nit the occasion After tIre criticism is miver, tIre members cast ballots for tIre designs the)' coirsider entitled tcr 1st auth 2nd place



The first regular meeting was Inelti iir tIre office of' Messrs.  Strickland & Svmrtonrs. Mr. Symons acted as r'rit it. TIre snibject

Air Entrance it is tIre intention to irave ilte subject cittly chosen airci I Ire mnneinbers clesigir mr any style titey wish

A meetinrg was held at the office of Mr. E. B. ·Jarvis, on tine

evening of tIre 19th inst. The subject on that occasion was '' A

Gable. The next rrneetitrg will be held mt the offices of Messrs.

Darling Sproatt & Pearson, witeit Mr. Darhinrg will act as critic.

Repcnrts of these and all subsequent nreetiirgs will appear mr tIre

CANADIAN ARChITECT ANt) WILDER. It is also tIre imrtemrticrrr to publish such of the sketches as shall posses sufflcierrt Irrerit for thiat purpose





<article title="The Foresters Temple" author="">THE FORESTERS' TEMPLE.

SOME time ago we published an illustration of the temple being erected on the corirer of Riclrmond and Bay streets Toroirto, For the independent Order of Foreslers. The charter of that orgatrization atitirorizes them to hold real estate otrlv ho the value of $100,000, whereas tire building, mcludinrg the site, is expected to cost about $260,000. it has just come otnl how this provision has beetr avoided. Oronhyatekha, the su— prenne head of the order, has an amanuensis nanred Jessie Bravley, and tIns lady suddenly linds herself possessed of considerable wealth (on paper), tIre property above referred to beinig in her name. The site was deeded to her, and she gives mortgages to the lrtlstees covering the value of tIre property. By this means tIre litiritation imposed on the Order is avoided. The registration Qf the papers gave publiciy to the facts,

