<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



Quebec touched upon the subject in the same strain, and it was agreed that action be taken in the matter.

A series of arnmendments to the charter and by-laws were submitted by the Quebec section for consideration by the Council during the year.

Mr. R. Findlay submitted for consideration a standard form of contract for use between proprietor and contractors ; the Council will report on same at next annual meeting.

The meeting adjourned at this point till 3:30 p.m.

AFTERNOON SESSION.



At 3:30 o'clock the members again met at the "Chateau Frontenac."

A paper ~vwas read by Mr. Baillairge on "The Bearing and Resisting Strength of Structures," (printed elsewhere in this paper) and on " Bribery and Boodling."

Mr. J. F. Peachy urged that action be taken to rnmake the tariff of charges recognized by the public, his remarks being followed by a discussion as to whether the architect should refuse work when the superintendence of same is refused him. The majority of the members were of opinion that when the architect is deprived of the superintendence he should be free of all responsibility.

It was decided on motion of Mr. J. Venne, seconded by Mr. A. T. Taylor, that the Council consider the advisability of a proposition which would have for effect inducing the governments  and municipalities giving out their work by competition on a basis guided by proper rules prepared by the Council for the purpose, and that the Council be also authorized to communicate with sister societies to discuss the matter at as early a date as possible.

It was agreed that the examiners shall receive in future $10 each for their services at each examination.

It was proposed that the Montreal and Quebec sections organize in their own locality sketching classes for the use of the menimbers, in the interest of their advancement, and with the effect of promoting fraternity

Mr. J. Venne took a retrospective view of the position in which the profession has stood during the last ten years.

It was moved by Mr. Geo. Bussieres, seconded by Mr. F. X. Berlinguet, that the meeting be adjourned, and that the next annual rnmeeting be held in Montreal at a date to be fixed by the Council, but preferably to fall in September.



THE LUNCHEON.



The luncheon given in honor of the visitors at the Chateau Frontenac was one of the best ever given in Quebec. The ladies' ordinary was handsomely decorated for the occasion. President Baillairge occupied the chair, having on his right Mr. Hutchison, the new president, and on his left 1\Ir. J. M. Lemoine, ex-President of the Royal Society of Canada. Mr. Berlinguet occupied the vice-chair. About thirty sat down to the well spread tables. After the toast of the Queen had been duly honored, Mr. Hutchison proposed the health of Mr. Baillairge and the Quebec section, to which the retiring president made a forcible reply. After urging a strong pica for the retention of the French language, and condemning any scheme for the assimilation of the currencies of nations, their methods of computing time, or their weights and measures, all of which he asserted would have a tendency to reduce the demand for labor, he went on to express regret that the Montreal visitors could not remain longer with them, in order that they might make a return for hospitalities shown by that city at a former meeting. Addressing himself specially to the Montrealers he then proceeded:

"In your legitimate pride as metropolitans, you make little of us, Quebecers,- -we are at the end of the world, and it is exceptional to find in your city press more than three lines at a time devoted to the doings of the olden capital. Our turn will come, and may be it is close at hand. If Quebec to-day is attractive to tourists only, due to its drives, its points of view, its terraces, the surrounding landscape, its unrivalled port, its carnivals of ice and fire—if commerce, business, have for 30 years past eschewed, abandoned our port, and rendered us disinterested to the extent of cutting our own throats to favor Montreal, to make it an ocean port, the head waters of ocean navigation, by spending our millions in deepening Lake St. Peter—nature is about to force you to return to your whilom loves—for apart from the Chicago canal, which will lower the St. Laurence between Quebec and Montreal and up to Lake Ontario by fully 5 per cent.—and I was the first to call the attention of our people

to this unwarranted, unauthorized international spoliation— apart, I say, from the tapping of our waters to draw them off towards the Gulf of Mexico—there are other schemes upon the tapis (the Deep Water Convention now being held at Cleveland is proof to what I say) canals, one or more, which will run another to per cent, another 20 of our noble river, from the great lakes towards the Atlantic by the Mississippi and the Hudson and this handiwork of man is already being added to by natural causes our waters as you see on all hands are being lowered, shallowed. Man is and has been the direful agent in bringing this about - he has, tinder our Government's most unwise policy of timber limits, with no reserve cut down our forests, left bare the ground, the country instead of the wise policy of France and of the Mother Country, to cause the forest to persist, by sparing every tree less than twelve inches in diameter—he has swept the surface clean, and where the axe has been impotent to do the unhallowed work, man has abetted tire in its devouring greed to lay waste our God-given patrimony of wealth and plenty. Well, see you how it is? You are astonished nowadays at the greater frequency of cyclonic winds, and storms and inundations. No wonder, though this should be so, when the winter's snow, which formerly, protected from the sun's rays by the foliage, melted and ran off slowly into rills and rivulets and rivers now melts, as it were, all at a bound of sunshine arid rushes along in its maddened devastating course, carrying away mills and bridges and whole villages, and increasing our waters to a depth unknown before in spring ; while per contra, the rains of summer which, when the lands were wooded, ran from them slowly and measurably, as in the wisdom of God it had been willed they should, reaching in time our lakes and rivers through their tributaries, these waters now are sucked up by the sun, before they reach their destination, or on the way, absorbed by the dried up, parched beds of the unprotected rivers and hence in every way the St. Lawrence is gradually growing less; and gentlemen you will have to come to us to get deep water; for, thank God, the Ocean is still there, and the moon far enough away from man in his destructive rage, and though he may bring it within a stones throw by the telescope, to be not able to interfere with it, much less the sun in giving us the tides which, if they cannot reach to Montreal, will continue to Quebec, and make this the head of ocean navigation, the true ocean port for steamers of draught too great for shallowed Lake St. Peter. Now think ye, gentlemen, that we dote on these possibilities of the near future ; think ye that we tell you this in proud retaliation of the past? Not so, by any means, we look forward to it with pleasure, to do you good, not harm to help you find a remunerative field for your unexpended and ever increasing millions. Come to us, we are ready to receive you with open arms we have for some years past been endeavoring to put on the new man not the new woman with her unfeminine, unlovable prerogatives we have a new parliament, a new post-office, new Courts of Justice, new hospitals, new hotels: the Florence, Clarendon, Victoria, and Chateau Frontenac, adequate to all tastes, all purses, all aspirations—we have a new city hall by our friends Tanguay and Vallee and a new Mayor full of youth, talent and initiative enterprise. He saw as I pointed out that thc westward cry must be abandoned, and that instead of St. Sauveur, St. Roch or Mount Pleasant, the walled portion of the city was geographically the most central for Quebec's future, and now the extension of the city is going forward towards Montmorency, between which and the city proper there is a stretch to six or seven miles of unimproved territory. This is where we await your Montreal millionaires, and we will not be jealous if they bring you down with them to build them up and tell them how to make available ground of the Beauport fore-shore by building return tramways to the close by heights and quarries where lie ready, centuries of quarry refuse which would reach its destination by gravitation only and thc loaded cars return the empty ones. Ground can be made here for almost nothing. Gentlemen, this is no idle theory of mine—already some of your own people are here at work. Messrs. Whitehead & Co. have erected vast cotton and woolen factories at the Montmorency, and one of yourselves, Walbank, is the architect. The thriving village of Hedlyville is advancing to meet La Canardiere and Richardson's factories. Messrs. Parent and Bedard, both ex-Mayors of the large and thriving parish of Beauport, have for the fourth time in nearly three centuries rebuilt the as often fired brewery of Raccy memory and celebrity, the water from the river Beau port being pronounced by analysts amongst the very best in America for the required purpose. This factory of beer and lager will do much good in weaning men from their whiskeying propensities, it will render them stern and strong and healthy, and fit them for your purposes of building you up docks, elevators, refrigerators for your transatlantic business, while the want of water at Montreal may seriously impair the utility of your Hochelaga and other schemes. Once more then, gentlemen, let us say, come to us and we will receive you for our mutual benefit with welcome and outstretched arms.

A number of other toasts were given and responded to, after which the very pleasant gathering terminated.



Mr. S. G. Beckett, architect, 15 Toronto street, Toronto, would be pleased to receive samples of materials,

