<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	147



particular line of main to be operated singly or in conjunction—a very well arranged system and an arrangement that will recommend itself to any engineer for various reasons (1) Because either one or both boilers can be used; (2) because any one line of main can be used; (3) Because in case of accident occurring to one of the boilers or any radiator, repairs can be effected without disabling the whole system; all of' which tends to show that the person who laid the arrangement of pipes and mains had given some thought to economy and efficiency.



By referring, however, to diagram No. 3, we find what may almost be called a fatal error. This diagram represents arrangements made for expansion. Main 5, 5, leads to a small set of radiators in upper storey of building, and expansion tank had of necessity to be higher than this. The reader will observe that expansion is taken from the highest point on return main 5. By tracing out main 5 in diagrams 1 and 2, it will be noticed that these mains are each provided with valves and drips the same as the others, plainly signifying that they were intended for same purpose. Practical engineers can easily imagine what would happen in case these valves were closed; there would be a gradual expansion and increase in pressure until strength of material had been reached, and then! Well, an enquiry if not an inquest.

Just what happened in the case in question was this:

The weather was mild and main B was not required; a good fire was built under the boilers, resulting shortly after in a wreck, and the enquiry, "How did it happen ?" etc.

In this as in many other cases the steamfitter seems to have had a fairly good idea of how to lay out and run mains, but no idea whatever as to what was required to prevent disaster by over pressure, and consequently the whole of his good work was negatived by want of knowledge on this point.

In diagram 2, attached to return main is shown a small pipe in outline. To prevent possibility of accident through any of the valves in the mains being closed, this should be continued to expansion tank in upper storey. And in addition to this, each of the boilers in question should have been provided with a safety valve, set for required pressure, as an extra precaution. There is not the slightest doubt but that this class of boiler is just as liable to explosion as any steam boiler, and the sooner architects and others realize this fact, the better will be the reputation of' this class of heating.

Yours truly,

ENGINEER.



A portion of the geological museum building at Ottawa has been declared unsafe and the specimens have been removed from it. A new building for the museum and a new custom house are said to be in prospect.

<article title="Correspondence - London" author="">LONDON.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



MR. PEELE, stone carver, has started a private school for the teaching of architectural and model drawing.

Herbert Matthews, architect, will move into new offices in the Albion block at Christmas.

The erection of the G. T. R. car shops will increase the population and give an impetus to the building trade. There is scarcely an empty house in the city at present.

Many of the large buildings that have gone up this year are not yet completed, the Y. M. C. A. being one of them. London has now some of the finest public buildings in the country.

The London Waterworks Commissioners control the water supply, and have been running thc plant so economically that they were enabled to turn over more than $20,000 to the city. They own about 250 acres at Springbank, where the waterworks plant is situated, and the value of the property has been enhanced by the advantages it possesses of having fine sites for summer cottages, as the electric street railway will run down there next summer.



<article title="Hamilton Art School" author="">HAMILTON ART SCHOOL.

THE directors of the Hamilton Art School have been considering a scheme of the principal, Mr. Ireland, by which the work of the classes may be rendered more efficient, and the students encouraged,, after they have completed their elementary course of instruction, to keep in touch with the school. With these objects in view it was resolved at a late meeting

(1)	That any student, male or female, who has paid fees for the full term of three years, may attend the evening classes free, by becoming an annual member, which will cost only $1 a year. By granting this liberal concession it is expected that students will avail themselves of the three years course more generally than has been the case in the past, instead of from two to two and a half years on the average only, and thereby avail themselves of a life-long privilege. Hitherto students, after leaving the school, have not cared to trespass on Mr. Ireland's time for some occasional help which they needed, and did not feel disposed to pay a year s fees for the same. In the future they will be able to get this, as an ex-student member's privilege.

(2)	That students attending the all-day classes may attend the Tuesday and Friday evening classes free.

(3)	That pupils over 14 years of age who are attending thc Saturday morning classes be also allowed to attend the Tuesday and Friday evening classes free.

(4)	The rule that students must join the school either at the commencement of the term or half term is amended; they can now pay fees in advance for the unexpired portion of a term.





The extent to which a chimney can poison the atmosphere has been scientifically determined by a test made in Berlin, The soot which comes out of the chimney of a single sugar refinery was gathered for six days and was found to weigh 6,8oo pounds.

Some years ago the old Nova Scotia Penitentiary was sold to the Church of England Building Committee. It was proposed to use the stone for a new cathedral, but thc project fell through. The building has now been sold to thc People's Heat & Light Co., to bc used for gas works. It cost the committee $10,000 and they sold it for $22,000.

The specifications of the engineers' department of Toronto contain a provision to distribute moneys due to defaulting contractors among persons who supply material, after the claims of workmen have been paid in full. As the provisions might be taken advantage of for the purpose of filing fictitious claims, the advisability of climinating it altogether is being considered.

A deputation of the Toronto Builders' Exchange appeared before the Water Rates' sub-committee of the Executive to complain of a clause compelling the payment in advance of a charge for water of cents a thousand on brick, 2½ cents a toise on stone, and 2¼ cents a barrel on lime. It was also urged that such charges were unfair, and that thc charge should be made on lime alone. AId. McMurrich, chairman of the committee, suggested that it would be a move in the interests of the city if builders were permitted to use the city water force for building purposes. The revenue, as shown by the Treasurer's statement, was small, and under almost any system the honest man would pay and the dishonest man would not. The suggestion of the chairman was adopted.

