	<doctype type="text">CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



<article title="Points on Plastering" author="">POINTS ON PLASTERING.

By "PLASTERER."





PERHAPS some information on the general practice of lathing and plastering will be interesting. There is undoubtedly much bad plastering, and in every case the mortar and plastering material is blamed. This is not just.

The first essential of good plastering is good preparation to receive it. For plastering on brick or terra cotta, have your work straight and true, the joints rough. Don't use dry press brick, nor terra cotta with smooth face. If your walls are not straight don't expect to get a straight wall in two-coat work—lime mortar cannot be made that is equally good when used half an inch thick and two inches thick in the same wall.

Don't plaster with cement made from gypsum or similar compounds, such as acme, royal, agatite, etc, on Columbian fire proofing, or on Portland cement, unless you have them dry enough to prevent sweating or condensation. Portland or native cements, or even lime mortar is preferable in such work. Don't allow mortar to go on thicker than 3/4 of an inch at one time, and have your brick or cement free from dust or dirt. Don't plaster on smoked bricks or old bricks from chimneys; they will stain badly.

In preparing for lathing have your joisting, trimmers, etc., heavy enough to prevent vibration, and strap all large ceilings, using 2 X 2 strapping on 16" centers. If you don't strap, at least have all joisting and studding sized; very much crooked work would be avoided by enforcing this rule. Have all angles made solid. See to this yourself and don't rely on lathers who work by the piece to inform you of the carpenter's defects, and have trouble with him in consequence.

Use white pine lath, seasoned but not too dry. 1 3/8"

x	3/8" lath are light enough; 1" x 3/8" lath are only fit for use on joisting or studding at 12' centers. 18" breaks are frequent enough, but don't allow lath to break at door posts; the slamming of door or even the nailing of trim will cause a crack here. Don't blame the plasterer for this when you have allowed the carpenter to center his work so as to cause waste of time and lath to avoid it. Don't be unreasonable. Contractors are working at close figures for a living. Blame the right party. When you see a crack at an internal angle just above base, you did not have that angle made solid, and nailing the base caused it to crack.

Lath stains cannot be avoided in two-coat work, and are even more liable to appear when patent plasters are used, as the first coat is put on much thinner to save cost. Two-coat work is also liable to have every lath and joist show through when work gets old—you can count them through the plaster.

Lime mortar properly made makes good work, but you can't make a poor plasterer do it. Mortar made and used at once will get as hard if not harder than what is allowed to age. There is of course more danger from lime pitting; there is also a greater danger from the shorter nature of the material that the key will fall from all wall work. These objections are enough to condemn its use, but it is both unnecessary and im

practicable to ask that it be made two or three weeks before using. Very sharp sand is not best for ordinary mortar; a good clean sand of sharp grain or a mixture of soft and sharp is better; it requires the strength of cement to bind coarse sharp sand.

Don't allow mortar on lath to be used too soft—you will have no key. Don't have it too rich with lime for same reason. See that it is of proper consistency to require some force to apply it. If too poor (too much sand) key will fall off on wall work. Mortar of proper consistency for good work will crack badly in very hot weather, or if dried too quickly. For second coat on lath or for brick work one-third more sand may be used.

The term "hard white finish" is a misnomer; the hardest lime finish is made with sand. If enough sand is used to avoid use of calcined plaster, work will he uneven in color when dry. Don't allow finishing before base coats are dry—you are in greater danger of lath stains, cracks, lime pits, etc.

These remarks might be continued indefinitely. If they prove interesting I will be happy to give you some more.



<article title="The Quebec Castle" author="">THE QUEBEC CASTLE.

IN describing the antique castle, several writers have mixed up dates and incidents referring to the Fort St. Louis begun in 1620, with those relating to the Chateau St. Louis, which, after several changes and transformations, assumed that name only in 1647, under Governor de Montmagny. Hawkins is quite correct in saying that "The Castle of St. Louis was in early times

·rather a stronghold of defence than an embellished ornament of royalty. Seated on a tremendous precipice— On a rock whose haughty brow

Frown'd o'er St. Lawrences foaming tide.

and looking defiance to the utmost boldness of the assailant, nature lent her aid to the security of the position. The cliff on which it stood rises nearly two hundred feet in perpendicular height above the river. The castle thus commanded on every side a most extensive prospect, and until the occupation of the higher ground to the south-west, afterwards called Cape Diamond, must have been the principal object among the buildings of the city.

"When Champlain first laid the foundation of the Fort, in 1620, to which he gave the name of St. Louis, it is evident that he was actuated by views of a political, not of a commercial character. His mind was in better keeping with warlike enterprises than the acquirement of wealth. He was perfectly disinterested in all his proceedings. Foreseeing that Quebec would become. the seat of dominion and invite a struggle for its future possession, he knew the necessity of a stronghold, and determined to erect one in opposition to the wishes of the Company of Merchants." The building was commenced in July, 1620.—J. M. LeMoine in the December Canadian Magazine.



<article title="Water Curtain Protection" author="">WATER CURTAIN PROTECTION.

A SOMEWHAT novel system of fire protection has been tried at Boston to save a building from being ignited from adjacent premises. The chief fire station is in a dangerous lumber district, and a five-inch stand pipe has been erected, with connecting perforated pipes running along the front and side of the building near the top. There are also a number of spraying nozzles. By this means a complete water curtain is formed, affording perfect protection. At the trial 1,000 gallons of water per minute was used.

