<doctype type="text;ad">USEFUL HINTS.



<article title="Useful Hints" author="">COATING FOR DAMP WALLS.—Thirty parts of tin are dissolved in forty parts of muriatic acid, and thirty parts of sal-ammoniac are added. A powder composed of freestone, fifty parts; zinc oxide, twenty parts; pounded glass, fifteen parts; powdered marble, ten parts, and calcined magnesia, five parts, is prepared, and made into a paste with the liquid above mentioned. Coloring matter may be added. The composition may be used as a damp-proof coating for walls, or for repairing stonework, or for moulding statues or ornaments.

RAPID METHOD FOR DIVIDING TUBES. —In the Zeitshrift fur Analyt. Chemie, Herr Beekman describes a very neat and rapid method for dividing glass tubes which are too large or too thick to break with a mere file nick. He scratches round with a file at the line where the division is required, then wraps round the tube on each side of the mark a strip of wet filter paper, and applies a Bunsen burner or better, a blow-pipe flame. The method is equally good for the thickest glass tubes and the thinnest beakers. The space between the strips of filter paper should not be more than one or two millimeters.



CEMENT FOR MARBLE. —A good cement, with which to join marble,







CREDIT VALLEY Brown STONE

From <firm>Carroll & Vick's No. 6 Quarry</firm>,

Credit Forks, Ont.



SANDSTONE, fine grained, reddish brown. Contains quartz, and a little felspar and mica. The stone is in beds of four feet and under. and can be handled in pieces up to five tons. Quarry 300 yards from Railway.

	Section	Crushing Average Crush.

Specimen under Height. Crushing Stress	ing Stress per

	men. Pressure	Load, per sq. in. Square Inch

	Ins. Ins. t Pds. Pds.	Pds.

A

	B 2 7/8 X 3	2 7/8	131,000	15,188

	C 2 15/16 X 3	2 7/8	130,000	14,751

	D	3X3	2 7/8	133,000	14,777	14,905

china, or earthenware, is made as follows: Put a piece of white flint stone into the midst of a fierce fire; when it is white hot take it out with a pair of tongs and drop it into a pan of cold water It will fly into a fine powder, from which the water must be poured; then melt some white resin, and stir the flint stone powder into it until it is of the consistency of thick paste. When the cement is used, the edges of the marble or whatever substance is to be joined should be warmed, the cement rubbed on them, and the pieces neatly placed together.



WAXING HABDW00D.—A highly recommended preparation for waxing hardwood floors is made according to the following formula, which is taken from the American Druggist:



Yellow wax	25 oz.

Yellow ceresin	25

Burnt sienna	5

Boiled linseed oil                                

Spirits of turpentine, one gill, or about	30

Melt the wax ceresin at a gentle heat, then add the sienna, previously well trituiated with the boiled linseed oil, and mix well. When the mixture begins to cool, add the turpentine, or so much of it as is required to make a mass of the consistency of an ointment.

14,905	pounds is the average crushing strength per square inch of our Credit Valley Brown Stone.



The highest standard of test attained by any pure Sandstone in America.



IN confirmation of the facts above stated, we have pleasure in directing your attention to  the accompanying table, showing the result of the test of our stone, in connection with the series of tests of building stones conducted in 1892 at the School of Practical Science, Toronto. under the direction of a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects.

By referring to the results of the tests above mentioned, it will be seen that the average crushing stress of the majority of Canadian and American sandstone is far below that of ours, the difference in our favor ranging from 75 to 50 per cent.

The Credit Valley Brown Stone, owing to its modest tone, harmonizes beautifully with red or cream colored brick.

It has been reported that there is difficulty in obtaining Credit Valley Brown Stone. To correct this mistaken notion, we wish to state to architects and the public that we have a large quantity of stone ready to ship on the shortest notice, which can be followed up with an unlimited supply. Last year we made extensive additions to our plant and opened

up new quarries and mines, and will supply promptly all orders given to us or our agents.



<firm>CARROLL, VICK & CO.</firm>

Quarries:	Credit Forks, Ont. Office: 84 Adelaide St. West, TORONTO.

Montreal Agents: T. A. MORRISON & CO., 118 St. Peter Street.



Steel-Clad Bath





Catalogue



1895











T

 H IS month we are mailing our NEW CATALOGUE. We Will endeavor to have a copy reach all of our



friends; should we fail in this through error or oversight, please excuse the omission, drop us a card, and we Will immediately give the matter prompt attention.



WITH OUR HEARTY WISHES FOR A HAPPY AND



Prosperous New YEAR

<person>A.	0. BOOTH</person>, Manager

We are,

yours truly,

The <firm>Toronto Steel-Clad Bath & Metal Co.</firm>

LIMITED

	123 Queen St. East	-	TORONTO.

