<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title="Province of Quebec Association of Architects" author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ARC H ARCHITECTS



The fifth annual meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was held in the city of Quebec, as announced, on the 2nd instant, at the "Chateau Frontenac." Themorning session opened at 10:30 o'clock, at which were present the following members:

Messrs. Chas. Baillairge, President, in the chair ; A.



C. Hutchison, 1st vice-president; A. T. Taylor, 2nd Vice-President; J. Venne. Secretary J. Perrault.



Treasurer ; J. Nelson, R. Findlay, F. X. berlinguet and J. B.

Bertrand, Councilors ; and also S. Lesage, H. Staveley, J. F"

Peachy, J. P. S. Dussalt, G. E. Tanguay, J. P. Ouellet, Geo

Bussieres and D. Ouellet.

The President having taken the chair, the Secretary presented his report for the year just closing, which in substance is as follows

SECRETARY'S REPORT.



"The Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects presents to the Association the following report of its transactions during the year 1894.95

The architectural exhibition held in connection with the last annual meeting, although quite an innovation, was attended with signal success, and we can only recommend that annual exhibitions of architecture, and perhaps in connection with arts and crafts, bc held under the direction of the Association.

The most important work of the year has been the revision of the building by-laws for Montreal. A committee was appointed consisting of the following members Messrs. A. C. Hutchison, A. T. Taylor, J. Nelson, A. Raza, J. Venne, J. Perrault, J. Z. Resther and W. E. Doran. This work has been completed and submitted to the City Council in last April, and has lately been returned to our Council for the revision of the French translation made by the civic authorities. It required over sixty meetings to complete the work, and we have good reason to believe that if these building by-laws are passed in Council, which we trust will be done, they will be an immense improvement on the previous ones, and be of great benefit to everyone concerned, and to the city.

The library is increasing slowly, and we beg to acknowledge donations from Messrs. Chas. Baillarge, A. T. Taylor and J. Venne. Twenty-five volumes have been handsomely bound during the year, and it is intended to supply each member with a catalogue of all the books in the possession of the Association within a reasonable time.

We regret to report that notwithstanding the trouble taken by the Council and the correspondence with the Government, that the question of the Schedule of Charges is not much advanced. There being two alternatives presented by the Government—first, an arbitration to decide upon the items of charges and the opportunity to make them obligatory by law, the Association paying all the expenses; the other, and that which seems to be preferred, is that the Association shall issue said schedule and force it into use, and that it shall become law by long and united usage. What arises from all this is that the profession would gain enormously by a greater unanimity of action, for the common interests of all.

We think it is only due to ourselves that frequently foreign architecture are employed in the Dominion, especially in Montreal, Toronto and Quebec. It is not too much to assert that the Canadian Associations of Architects have amongst them able and distinguished members, who can compare advantageously with those architects who are confiscating work to which Canadians are entitled. It is time to protest against a thing which has become an abuse, causing prejudice, not only to our profession, but indirectly to the whole country at large, in that it deprives a good proportion of the population—architects, mechanics, manufacturers, etc.—of their just rights. The Federal Government has done something in the matter by levying a custom duty on plans coming from abroad, but more is required.

Your Council has presented to the Montreal City Council a petition urging the organization of an Art Standing Committee, which should examine and report on all plans, designs and models of monuments and embellishments of our public squares and avenues. The adoption of this suggestion would not entail any additional expense to the civic treasury, and could do only good to the public in fostering the art feeling, which is rather weak. The City Council, having many vexed questions on the tapis, has apparently been unable to consider the proposal as yet, but it is hoped that it will soon do so.

At the winter examinations held in Quebec in January, four candidates passed successfully—three candidates were for preliminary examinations and one for final. At the July examinations held in Montreal four candidates presented themselves, all of whom passed.

The Association now numbers 63 members—11 from Quebec, from Laprairie and 51 from Montreal.

For the first time since its foundation the Association elected honorary members, viz : His Excellency the Lt.-Governor of Quebec, the Premier and the Minister of Public Works, Quebec the Mayors of Montreal and Quebec; Sir Donald Smith, the lion. Geo. A. Drurnmond and Mr. R. B. Angus.

As a trial the Council invited a competition for designs of a seal and letter heading for the Association, and offered $10 as a first premium. Several designs were received, but were not considered fully satisfactory by the Council. It may not be out of place to impress on the members of this Association the advisability of inducing the governments and municipalities to have the designing of public buildings thrown open to competition to recognized architects—members of some Association of Architects, throughout the Dominion, under well defined and dignified rules. We feel sure it would tend to improve the standing of the profession and help to create a greater national interest in architecture. It may be advisable to have a special committee to consider the matter or to refer it to the new Council for action.

During last winter the Association had its usual monthly dinners and meetings. These meetings are capable of being made very pleasant and useful by interesting members in them. Papers were read by Messrs. A. C. Hutchison, A. T. Taylor and J. Venne.

Six members have requested the aid of the Council to solve some professional difficulties, and the Council gladly gave such aid as was possible.

The possession by the Association of a portrait of Mr. Chas. Barry, hung in their rooms, has inspired Mr. J. Venne to present one of Victor Bourgeault, a well-known architect of Montreal, who died just soon enough to deprive the Association of his services. The idea has been suggested that the Association should possess the portraits or some memento of the most eminent of its deceased members, to serve as a remembrance to younger members, and more especially to their old pupils.

We must before closing acknowledge the good-will of the press and their readiness to report to the public anything that was considered of interest during the year, transacted by the Association."



The report was unanimously adopted. The report of the Treasurer was also adopted.



The President read two letters, one from the Prime Minister and one from the Minister of Public Works, expressing their regret at being unable to attend the luncheon in the evening.



The meeting then proceeded to the election of officers and

Council, with the following results:—President, A. C. Hutchison;

1st Vice-President, A. T. Taylor ; 2nd Vice-President, J. F.

Peachy Secretary, Jos. Venne ; Treasurer, Jos. Perrault.

Council : C. Baillaincre, 1st member; R. Findlay, J. Z. Resther,

A.	H. Lapierre, G. E. Tanguay and Theo. Daoust. Messrs.

A.	J. Fowler and C. Chausee were selected as auditors.



The newly-elected President, Mr. A. C. Hutchison, took the chair, and a vote of thanks, proposed by Mr. H. Staveley, seconded by Mr. J. F. Peachy, was passed to the retiring officers for their efficient services to the Association.



It was resolved to have a new official list of the members of the Association printed, containing also the names of the honorary members and those of the officers and Council at the head.

On motion of Mr. J. Venne, seconded by Mr. C. E. Tanguay, it was decided that steps be at once taken for the organization of an architectural exhibition and of the allied arts, in connection with the next annual meeting, and that the Council be authorized to take action in the matter.



Moved by Mr. S. Lesage, seconded by Mr. A. T. Taylor, and resolved, that the Association take the necessary steps to have the Auge Bill amended to meet the views of the architects, or to secure its repeal.



Mr. A. T. Taylor explained what had been, and what he would propose should be done in connection with the creation of an Art Standing Committee in Montreal, to advise the City Council regarding the selection of sites for projected monument of public character, and the erection of the same, as well as

opening of new streets and boulevards, or things of similar character, relating to the embellishment of the city. The need of such a measure is to be observed in the old city of Champlain where action is necessary to preserve the few souvenirs of I

glorious past that we have left. Several of the members of Quebec

