<doctype type="text;plate">ILLUSTRATIONS.

<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS

STORE OF <building>R. SIMPSON</building>, CORNER OF YONGE AND QUEEN



STREETS, TORONTO.----<person>EDMUND BURKE, </person>ARCHITECT.



THE premises cover a frontage on Yonge street of 118 feet, and on Queen street 157 feet, the corner, 70 x 100 feet, being occupied by the new building.

Building operations were somewhat hampered and difficult owing to the conditions and surroundings. Some of the heaviest

raised bridge kept three feet above the level of the roadway, supported by shores, which were lengthened as the excavation was deepened. This bridge was covered in to form the usual hoarding for the protection of the public, and the whole was maintained till the completion of the building and also of the granolithic sidewalk beneath. The Queen street sidewalk for a length of 105 feet was fenced in, and most of the material was taken in through one or two openings. Long girders, etc., had to be taken in at night or in the short intervals between the

Plan of

traffic on the streets of Toronto is centered at this point, street cars passing up and down Yonge street about once a minute, and along Queen street at about double that interval. The foot traffic on Yonge street is also exceptionally great, and as the tracks are double on both streets, and turn the corner within a few feet of the curb, it was found necessary to provide a passage of ample width without encroaching on the roadway and permit at the same time the prosecution of the excavation under the sidewalk. This was accomplished by the construction of a

passing of the cars. Business had also to be maintained in the Queen and Yonge street stores without interruption. To this end a complete wooden wall, dust and weather proof from cellar to roof was constructed in these stores, sufficiently far away to permit of the removal of the party walls and to make connections of old floors to new beams supported from the columns carrying the new building. Some of the work was carried on night and day, chiefly the excavation and the structural steel works, the night work being done by the aid of electric lights.

