<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="The Toronto Technical School" author="">THE TORONTO TECHNICAL SCHOOL.



UNDER the new principal recently appointed the Toronto Technical School appears to have entered upon a fresh era of prosperity. As several new subjects have been added, some of them of great importance in the line of architecture and building, a resume of the history and work of the institution will be of interest.

The school was established in January, 1892. Its principal promoters were the late ex-Ald. Gillespie, who died before it was opened; Dr. J. Oiland Orr, the present chairman of the Board, who was the first chairman; the late Mr. J. A. Mills, and Mr. A. M. Wickens.

At first it was thought to be somewhat of an experiment, but the success already achieved has placed it in a more definite position. It is situated on College St., at the head of McCaul St., and directly to the south of the School of Practical Science, in what was formerly Wycliffe College. Permanent quarters have been secured there, and the building so fitted as to be better adapted to the requirements of the school.

It is maintained entirely by the city of Toronto, and is under the control of a Board of Directors composed of seventeen members. Five of these are members of the City Council, five represent the Trades and Labor Council, two the Stationary Engineers, two the Architects, two the Educationists and one the  Manutactuers. Regular meetings of

the Board are held on the fourth Tuesday in each month during the session, which begins with October and ends with April.

The classes are free to all residents of the city who wish to avail themselves of its privileges. Both sexes are admitted. The course of study to be pursued by any one is optional, and registration and entrance to any class can be made at any time during the session. It is desirable, however, to enter the classes at the opening of the session.

The school has a staff of nine teachers, and the class hours are from 7:45 to 9:45 p.m. each week day evening, excepting Saturdays.

The design of the school is to aid those who have not had the advantage of an education in he early period of life. It is specially intended for the artisans, tradesmen, mechanics, etc., and those who follow the usual occupations of an industrial community.

In nature of the WOUK done is very different from that usually taken up by the ordinary commercial colleges or schools An enumeration of the subjects taught will give some idea of the work it is doing. They are Arithmetic and Mensuration, Algebra, Euclid, Descriptive Geometry, Perspective Drawing, Mechanics, Chemistry, Practical Chemistry, in each of which there are both junior and senior classes. Besides these there are courses as complete as the time will permit in Applied Electricity Heat, Hydrostatics, Steam and the Steam Engine, Hydraulics, Light, Sound, Practical Geometry, Freehand Drawing and Designing, Mineralogy and Geology, and Modeling in Clay. In the draughting room a numerous group of subjects is taken up, as Machine and Architectural Drawing, Industrial Design, Shading, Lettering, Machine Construction, etc.

That the school is doing an important and useful work, and that it is appreciated by the young men of the city, is attested by the fact that the aggregate attendance for last year was 631, while the average nightly attendance for the whole session was

286.	This year the attendance is already about 450.

There are no tees for attendance on any of the classes, and each student can take any subject he chooses, or any group of subjects that the time table will permit.

Considerable improvement was made during the holidays by the remodeling of the building and the addition of new classrooms.

The school is now fairly well provided with apparatus in the more important departments for the practical illustration of the

various physical subjects taught. It is intended to make the teaching as practical as possible, and to see that the students know the work and not merely see it done. At the end of the session, or of the work in any subject, examinations are held in the various branches, and certificates are granted to those who succeed. A diploma is also given by the school to those who complete certain definite courses of study. This work, it is thought, will require from three to four years on the part of a student with average ability and but meager attainments at his entrance upon the course.

Three new teachers have recently been appointed to the staff, and one of the old teachers, Dr. J. McMaster, selected as principal. The new teachers are Mr. James Milne, electricity and steam engine, Mr. D. Hull, mathematics, and Mr. A. V. White, draughting There are now three instructors in draughting, Mr. E. R. Babington, who also takes modeling, Mr. A. F. McCallum and Mr. White.

Modeling is a new subject and has been added for industrial work. It is well to emphasize the fact that the instruction given by the school is not considered from the side of art, but industrial. It is not intended to train the aesthetic ideas of the pupils so much as to enable them to earn dollars. The class in modeling is at present engaged on the five orders of architecture and is intended for- stone cutters.

We subjoin a brief sketch and portrait of Dr. McMaster, the new principal.

John McMaster, B. A., M.D.C. M., the subject of the brief sketch, was born in the county of Sirncoe, Ont., in 1857. His parents, who were of Irish lineage, settled in that county a few years earlier. From the age of five till he was twelve, he was as regularly kept at school as the average boy in a newly settled country place can be. At that very early age he learned to plough and became so useful on the farm that he was kept at home, excepting for a few months in the winter. At the age of eighteen it was necessary for him to leave home and to earn a livelihood for himself. At this time his education was very meager, being confined to reading, writing and arithmetic, at the latter of which he was somewhat expert. As a boy he was very ingenious with his knife, always being mechanically inclined. In spare time, and on wet days, he used to occupy himself making miniature saw-mills, to be arrived by a small stream that ran through the farm. Fire-arms made of lead, and bows and arrows of every description, were among his numerous inventions. His desire as a youth was to be an engineer and machinist. In this he never had his father's support, and as he grew older he became more anxious to obtain an education. His first employer owned a small saw-mill and worked a farm besides. John was part of the time engaged n the mill and part on the farm. During this year he bought books and studied Euclid, History and Short Hand writing With the money he earned he resolved to begin his own education. After six months in a public school he passed the entrance to the high school, and very shortly afterwards—three months—obtained a second class B certificate. His means being exhausted, he again went to work, and soon secured enough to fit him for teaching. He attended the various training institutions for teachers in this country, and has been engaged in teaching in nearly all the different kinds of schools in the Province. By alternately teaching and studying he was enabled to secure all the different grades of certificates granted by the education department. A degree in arts was the next desideratum. At Toronto University he took a complete honor course in mathematics  graduating in physics in 1886 While there he did not confine himself exclusively to mathematics, but gained a fair knowledge of science, metaphysics and English literature. After graduating he taught mathematics and physics for a few years in different high schools in the province. Not being

