<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title="Students Department – Competition for a city Store Front" author="">STUDENTS DEPARTMENT



"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPE



TITION FOR A CITY STORE FRONT.



THE competitions previously held under the auspices of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER were especially designed to test the student's ability to properly design and plan various kinds of buildings. The object of the present competition is to test his knowledge of construction. It is to be feared that many students who have the ability to make pleasing sketches, are less proficient as regards a knowledge of the character of materials and the proper method of employing them in building construction.

With the object, as stated, of bringing to the proof the knowledge of this character which they may possess, students of architecture residing within the Dominion of Canada are invited to submit  competitive designs for a city front for a retail jewelry store on a leading street.

The building is to have a frontage of 35 feet, and to be 5 storeys in height, with a retail store on ground floor, and a side entrance affording access to upper storeys, which are intended to be used for office purposes.

Drawings must be made with PEN and BLACK INK on WHITE cardboard, drawing paper or tracing cloth. On one sheet is required an elevation and plans of ground and first floors ot the building, drawn to scale; on another sheet, working details of ground floor, drawn to 34 scale, and sufficiently coarse to admit of reduction to 15 x 10 inches in size.

Each competitor is required to mark his drawings with his nom de plume only, and to forward his drawings, so marked, post-paid, addressed to the editor of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, at a sufficiently early date to enable them to reach their destination before o'clock p.m. on the 3rd day of December next, at which time the competition will close.

Each competitor must forward with his drawings a sealed envelope, containing his nom de plume as it appears on his drawings, together with his full name and address, and a brief description of his design, stating the materials proposed to be employed in its erection.

The first premium in this competition is $10.00, the second $5.00, and the third one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

The competition will be decided by a Committee of three members of the Ontario Association of Architects.

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER reserves the right to publish any of the drawings submitted. All drawings will be returned to their authors within a reasonable time after the competition is decided.

Competitors are urged to pay strict regard to the above stated conditions. Drawings which do not conform to the conditions will not be considered.





<article title="Drilling Glass" author="">DRILLING GLASS.



GLASS can be drilled with a common drill, but the safest method is to use a common broach drill. No spear-pointed drill can be tempered hard enough not to break. The broach can be either used as a drill with a bow or by the hand. It should be selected of such a bore that it will make a hole of the required size, about 1 inch from thc end. It should be broken off short with a pair of pliers, at about 1 1/2 in., and when the sharp edges are blunted by drilling, a fresh end should be made by breaking off 1/8 in., and so on, until the hole is bored. It is always desirable to drill from both sides, as it prevents the glass from breaking. Drill lightly and lubricate with spirits of turpentine and oil of lavender, or a little camphor instead of a little oil of lavender. Holes may be drilled through plate glass with a flat-ended copper drill and coarse emery and water. The end of the drill will gradually wear round, when it must be reflattened, or it will not hold the emery. The best means of drilling holes in glass is by using a splinter of a diamond. A brass drill is made to fit the drill stock, sawn down a little way with a notched knife to allow the splinter to fit tight, and the splinter fixed in the split wire with hot shellac or sealing wax. The drill is to be used quite dry and with care. If the hole to be drilled is wanted larger than the tool, drill a number of small holes close together to form a circle as large as the holes required: then join the holes with a small file.

<article title="Useful Hints" author="">USEFUL HINTS.

The French and English papers, which are now used, come without friezes, which is a distinct gain in the matter of height, while it possibly detracts from the breadth of a room.

It is with color as with every form of art, it can only be handled by those who delight in it. Bright, pure colors are the basis of richness arid purity of hue, but their successful use demands a delicate handling of subordinate hues arid tints.

Strong liquid ammonia mixed with an equal bulk of turpentine may be used with advantage in removing old paint. It is unnecessary to apply anything additional to the surface ot the wood for repainting, as is the case when lye is employed.

In experirnents conducted by the German government on steel anti iron girders, the soft steel girder proved twenty-two per cent. stronger than the iron girder The strength of steel girders appeared to be about the same for the flanges, if made alike in sections.

Paper that is difficult to remove, even by the application of hot water, should be given a coat of hot paste. The paste assists in preventing the water from running off the surface; it will soon soak through. In the case of varnished papers it is necessary to score the surface with a chisel.

Blue walls, or those with blue lights in the color, make a room seem large, as blue recedes from the eye. This color must be skillfully used, however, for if too pale it is cold and unsympathetic; if crude it takes all color from the complexion of its mistress. The shades of blue that wear the best on the nerves and senses are toned with grey, yellow or pink.

The wall papers shown in New York this season are said to be much darker, and, like everything else, show elaborate floral decorations. Even a black surface is shown, with garlands or festoons of gay flowers. Maroon is very effectively used it forms such a pleasant background for pictures. Artists claim that the use of the very light papers of the past few years has detracted from artistic effects, and a return to more pronounced colors will greatly increase the richness and beauty of interior decorations.

It is not generally known that the word Anaglypta' has a classical origin. To the ancient Greeks the glypta" meant every variety of engraved wood, until at a later date cameo cutting became popular among them, arid it became necessary to add to their vocabulary in order to define the new art. Cameo' was, of course, raised work, as distinct from

taglio " or incised cutting, and the ana, meaning raised, was therefore added as a prefix to the preceding term, in order to express this meaning. Subsequently the word "Anaglypta came into general use to describe every kind of bas-relief.

A cement for wet places, like aquariums, is made of litharge, fine white sand and plaster of Paris calcined plaster), each part, and resin 1/3 part. The ingredients should bc thoroughly mixed and made into a paste with boiled linseed oil to which a drier has been added. It should then be thoroughly mixed by beating and allowed to stand four or five hours before being used. It should not stand much longer than this, as the cement becomes worthless after it has been mixed twelve or fifteen hours. Glass may be cemented to wood or metal with this preparation, and it will resist the action of both fresh and salt water.

The ancients, according to Palladio, first squared and worked the sides of the stones which were to be placed one upon the other, leaving the other sides rough. The edges of the stones, being beyond the square, were then smoothed. But the roses between the modillions and similar ornaments of the cornice, which could not commodiously be done when the stones were fixed, were carved upon the ground. If the works were very great, as the Arena of Verona, the Amphitheatre of Pola and other buildings to save expense an(l time, they worked only the imposts of the arches, capitals and cornices the rest they left rough. But in temples and other buildings which required nice work, they spared no pains in the execution, glazing and smoothing even the very flutes of the columns and polishing them carefully.

Chimney felling is an art little known. Mr. Smith, a Lancashire steeple-jack, recently disposed of his forty-sixth tall chimney with ease and dispatch, thereby forestalling the laws of bricks and mortar, which threatened a descent without Mr. Smith's assistance. It seems to be the easiest thing in the world. The stack has lumps of it cut out at the base, one side being left alone, and props are then introduced into the gaps, shavings, paraffin, and tar being liberally added, as the cookery books have it. When all is ready, a match is applied, the smoke of its own burning rushes up the chimney, and in a few minutes the whole thing collapses. The chimney, which was 135 ft. high, came down twenty-five minutes after the match was applied in the most docile fashion, and, what is more, it disposed its remains exactly as Mr. Smith who stood close by, had arranged.

A solution of 50 parts of commercial alizarin in 1000 parts of water, to which a solution of ammonia has been added, drop by drop, until a perceptible ammonia odor is developed, will give to fir and oak a yellow-brown color, and to maple a red-brown. If the wood is then treated with a one per cent. aqueous barim chloride solution, the first named becomes brown, and the latter a dark brown. If calcium chloride be used instead of barium chloride, the fir becomes brown, the oak red-brown, and the maple a dark brown. If a two per cent, aqueous solution of magnesium sulphate be used, the fir and oak become dark brown, and the maple a (lark violet-brown. Alum and aluminum sulphate produce on fir a high red, and on oak and maple a blood-red. Chrome alum colors maple and fir reddish-brown, and oak Havana brown. Manganese sulphate renders fir and maple a dark violet-brown, and oak a dark walnut brown.

