

<doctype type="text">the subject will cause architects who may have done injustice to contractors to extend to them a greater amount of consideration in the future.



The purposes to which paper is now applied are almost numberless and cover every variety of industry. One of the most recent, in connection with the building trade, is for plastering. Two factories are in operation in the United States, one at Buffalo and one at Toledo, for the manufacture of paper plaster, and a third is about to go into operation at Fulton, West Virginia. About fifty men will be employed at the latter. The new plaster is practically fire proof, it can be put on in the coldest weather and will not crack, it is one fifth lighter than the old plaster and almost indestructible, and it can be used for roofing purposes also.



RATHER an odd suit came before Judge Morson at Toronto recently, in the Division Court. It will be remembered that Mrs. Dr. Oldright some time ago recovered $3,600 damages from the Grand Trunk, for in— stepping in to a hole at the new Union

juries received by 

Station. At the trial Mr. Wm. Laidlaw, 0. C., who was her solicitor, used a plan of the station, which was produced by the G. T. R. and put in as an exhibit. The plan was made by Messrs. Strickland & Symons, architects for the G. T. R., and they now sue Mr. Laidlaw for $25, the price of the plan, saving that. he ordered

it. Mr. 1aidlaw, on the other hand, alleges that the Grand Trunk had it made.



THE Southern Architect makes a strong plea for training the public taste in architecture and offers a suggestion  as to how it can be done. The papers print a great deal of what is known as boiler—plate matter, that is, miscellaneous articles which are furnished in the form of stereotype plates, some of it good and some very inferior. The Architect suggests that articles should be prepared under the direction of the various associations of architects, stereotyped, and furnished to the papers at low cost, when they would no doubt gladly be published. It points out that at present architects are en— devouring to teach the public by an occasional artistic building, and that the process is very slow. It further advocates, by this means, the development of a style of architecture adapted to its own locality the South which in time would grow into a renaissance. In the latter is there not. a suggestion for Canada? Why not have a Canadian order of architecture? It would be of slow growth, it is true, but it will never come if a beginning is not made.



A DISTINGUISHING feature of modern house planning is the wide port portiere entrance between apartments on the ground floor which apartments open into a square hall. Heating contractors complain that this kind of plan renders exceedingly difficult the proper heating of the house. It is claimed that if the radiating surface in a house of this description is evenly proportioned as between up and down stair apartments, the latter will be very inefficiently warmed, while the temperature of the former will be uncomfortably high. A heating contractor told the writer that he got over the difficulty by giving to the down stair apartments 75 per cent. more radiating surface than was called for by the rules of the heating authorities, and deducting in equal ratio from the up stair rooms This arrangement is said to have

worked satisfactorily. Presuming these statements to he substantially correct , it is clearly apparent that satisfactory results cannot be achieved by following any hard and fast rules on the subject, but that methods must be varied to fit the conditions.



THE ruinous competition amongst contractors in the smaller towns and villages is due in a great measure to the fact that workmen, when out of employment, be— come ready to snap at anything that gives promise of remuneration of any kind. Men who may be good mechanics in their several callings, but who know little or nothing of estimating, and less of the management of men or work, put in bids for contracts that are either away above the mark or ridiculously low. The former does little harm, as the overgrown tender is never considered, but the low tender injects its poison into the whole transaction, and leads the owner to believe that the legitimate tenders are much too high and that an attempt to take advantage is being made. This state of affairs generally ends in either awarding the contract to the incompetent low bidder or a second call for tenders. If the first, the contractor usually bungles the whole matter, partly from lack of knowledge and partly from the fact that he soon discovers there is no money in the job for him then comes a series of schemes and efforts to slight the work and cram in inferior material, against which the architect or inspector kicks," with the result that the contractor gets deeper and deeper in the mire, until at last, in despair, he either throws up the work or lowers his head to the inevitable, which is often ruin to himself and family. If new tenders are called for, the legitimate contractors, in their effort to keep out the ' workman,'' will cut down their estimates to starvation rates, while the incompetent " in his eagerness to get work, makes further reductions in his tender, thus dropping into the '' trap '' prepared for him by the regulars, and as a rule, his low figures catch the owner, spite of the advice or protests of the architect, and the result is trouble and confusion all round, and oftentimes severe loss to the owner. This is a sad and injurious condition, but it exists in every town in Canada, and should he brought to an end. Can it be controlled ? 'With proper management we think it can.



<article title="Should Architects be Licensed" author="">SHOULD ARCHITECTS BE LICENSED.

IT is probable the next session of the Ontario legislature will witness the passage of an act restricting the use of the title Architect " to those who have taken a course of study and undergone an examination on the subjects comprised therein. Such a bill was introduced last session, but it did not reach its final stages before the house was prorogued. Some opposition was offered on the part of the Patrons, but when the matter was presented to them in its true light, they withdrew their objections and agreed to allow it to pass. There seems to be nothing now it. the way to prevent such a measure being placed on the statute book.

We do not know that there is any necessity for us to urge such a measure at length. The matter has already been fully discussed in our columns, and our views expressed. If it is necessary in the public interest to license medical men, who have to do with the lives of the people, and the legal profession, who have the welfare of their property in charge, why should it not also be required in the case of architects, upon whose work the safety of both life and property depends? It seems

