<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE Art Student's League, of Toronto, is holding its annual exhibition at Roberts' gallery on King street. There is some very creditable work on exhibition, showing that. the League is doing good work The exhibition is well worth a visit.



AN important Step has been taken towards the building of the proposed bridge over the Hudson at New York. The general plans of the bridge have been approved by the War Department. The next step is the fixing of the exact location, when the detail plans can be completed, and then the projectors will be in a position to make their financial arrangements and go on with the construction of the bridge





Up to 1st October buildings were erected or altered in New York this year to the number of 5,254, of which 86 cost $100,000 or over each. The total cost of these

86 buildings was $20,000,000. Of the entire number of buildings 2,067 were tenements or flats, and houses for residential purposes. New York seems to grow, but we fancy it will be some time before it ranks as the third city in the world as to size, notwithstanding the placing of it Where by some of the United States journals.



M. L. Wuarin a Frenchman who writes in the Revue Scientific, on Buildings in the United States," gives the latter nation much praise for the way they plan their houses and their household management. Among the things he commends are the interior drainage, free use of water, hygienic plumbing, heating (hot water heating),  cooling methods, including the mechanical fan, distribution of hot water, laundry - arrangements, methods of putting in coal, and last but not least, the district telegraph system. Old nations can sometimes learn a great deal from the new.



We hear occasional complaints of the working of the lien law in Ontario, one being that a person who supplies building material may, by the collusion of the party who sells the land and the builder, be done out of his just rights, It is impossible to frame a law to meet every possible case, and if parties make up their minds to act dishonestly they can always find means to do so. We understand that since the lien law was amended in 1893 it has proved much more satisfactory than formerly.



A DEPUTATION of commercial travelers recently waited upon lion. R. Harcourt, who has charge of the license branch in the Ontario government, and complained of the unsanitary conditions which prevail in country hotels, urging that steps should be taken to remedy this state of affairs by the appointment of an inspector, or otherwise. Unfortunately there is good reason for the complaint, but the conditions referred to exist chiefly where there is no proper water supply or drainage

It is probable the coming- session will witness  system

legislation to remove the cause of complaint.



A PROPOSAL to pull down the old court house in New Orleans, to make way for a more modern building, is meeting with much opposition, and justly so. The old building was the government house in the days of French and Spanish rule in America, and more history and romance duster around it than perhaps any other building  on the continent. If New Orleans wants a new

court house let it be built on another site, and preserve the old building as a museum or art gallery or something of that sort. There is too much of a tendency to remove the ancient landmarks. Boston is perhaps an except exception to this rule.



THE Carmelite Monastery at Niagara Falls, Out., is trying an experiment in heating by electricity, which will be watched with interest. The whole building will not be so heated, but having arranged for a fixed amount of power, all of which is not required for other purposes, the surplus is to be employed for heating. Electricity is not an economical agent for heating so far, and is used on street cars on account of its convenience, and because the current cuts no figure in the railway's expense account. But it will be employed at the monastery under favorable conditions, and the result will be of service in arriving at the relative Cost as compared with other methods.



GREAT apprehension is felt lest the Church of England body in Toronto should lose St. Albans Cathedral, or rather the portion of it already built, the building and the land on which it stands being heavily mortgaged, without any money to meet the indebtedness. The hard times have, in common with many other institutions, seriously affected their revenue. Some time ago an appeal was made, but it met with a very small response, and now another request is made to save the property. A contribution of one dollar per member is asked for. It would be unfortunate it the building passed out of the hands of the church, as a large expenditure has already been made upon it.



WHILE it is unquestionably the duty of every architect to guard the financial interests of his clients, he should be equally careful to do justice also to the rights of contractors. Bitter complaints are sometimes heard of the manner in which architects, in the employ of wealthy clients, are accustomed to exact from their contractors an unnecessary amount of work, and put them to so much needless expense that on the completion of their contracts everything in the shape of profits is found to have been wiped out. In some cases the wealthy client instead of the contractor should have been called upon to pay the cost of the extra work required. We know of instances in which contractors, who faithfully tried to carry out their work in the best manner, became discouraged by the penuriousness and lack of consideration of the architects by whom they were employed. Such contractors are none too plentiful, and it is a pity that they should be forced into the belief that work skillfully and faithfully performed will bring no greater reward than if done in an inferior manner. We constantly hear comparisons made between the ancient skilled artisan and the artisan of to—day, and the desire expressed that it might be possible to obtain at the present time work equal in quality to that of former centuries. Yet how often does it happen that the skillful workman is put on a par with the inferior workman as regards the price which he shall receive for his work. If he is not willing to bring his price down to meet the tender of a man of inferior ability, in the majority of cases he loses the work. This is a poor method of encouraging a high standard of skill and honesty on the part of contractors, and we trust that this reference to

