<doctype type="text;plate">ON THE BEARING AND RESISTING STRENGTH OF



<article title="On the Bearing and Resisting of Structures and that of their Component Parts and Materials" author="Baillaige, C.">STRUCTURES AND THAT OF THEIR COMPO



NENT PARTS ANI) MATERIALS.



BY CHAS. BAILLAIGE



MANY failures have, of late years, occurred of various buildings or of portions thereof, due to faulty, hasty or unmatured construction, and hardly a day passes hut what the newspapers chronicle some catastrophic, some collapse of a building just finished, or even before it is finished, as evidently incapable of supporting its own weight, let alone that of the living or dead weight, or both, which it should have been made strong enough to hear. Such failures have occurred, in Canadian as well as in United States and

European cities, and in most cases with the loss of one or more lives.



Much more attention should also he bestowed on the erection of temporary stages or platforms in cases of reviews, races, athletic and other performances hut with this, which is of secondary importance, and where sufficient solidity of construction can he arrived at without subjecting the structure to abstruse calculations, or to anything more than giving it due consideration, we do not intend to deal.

The engineering of architecture must he more closely attended to by architects, as the engineer will take the matter out of the architect's hands; and that would be a slur to the profession which should and must he avoided. Not that engineering structures in this respect are always scathless, for there are also many eases on record of the failure of a bridge, a subaqueous tunnel or other such structure, but these are comparatively few and far between, white architectural mishaps are of far more frequent occurrence.

Our friend Mortimer, publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, rehearses the fact at page 112 of his "Hand-Book' that the ultimate strength of a wall or pier of good hard burnt bricks in good lime mortar, as given by Kidder, of Boston, is 1,500 lbs. to the square inch, say 216,000 lbs. or 108 tons to the square foot—while the use of Portland cement with the best hard burned bricks, increases the resistance to 2,500 lbs. to the inch, or 180 tons to the foot—though previous competent authorities have given results from 30 to 50 per cent. less than these. Assuming therefore the known weights of mortar and cement brickwork per cubic foot, it would require a wall or pier to be from 1,600 to 2,700 feet high to crush the bottom bricks; and since such extreme cases have not and can never occur in practice, and that walls do fall notwithstanding, which do not even teach to one-tenth of the height, it is evident that not only must the mere crushing elements be made factors of but other important data of length, breadth, height and thickness, and these are the considerations which apparently, from seldom or ever entering a builder's mind or that of a would-be architect, lead to the reocated accidents and fatalities of every day occurrence in some part or other of the civilized world.

Now, this knowledge is at hand and to be found as 109 of the "Canadian Contractor's Island-Book," which gives the proper thickness of brick walls for dwelling houses tip to 100 ft. in height ; though of course, there are other considerations to be dealt with, such as the supporting, staying or stiffening ministry of the successive tiers of joists or beams, whether of wood or iron, which enter into the structural arrangements of the building, important among which is the necessity that beams which would he other wise of too lengthy a span and therefore liable to dangerous oscillation and destructive leverage on the walls, t)e supported at intermediate  points by other walls and piers restorative of the necessary stiffness to insure stability.

When, however, a structure he comes very high and heavy, as with the present tall buildings like the Philadelphia city hall, the New York World (22 story) printing establishment, the American Surety building (307 ft. high ab