Outside Venetian.

Rolling Partitions.

School Venetian

<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Pompeiian Houses" author="">POMPEIIAN HOUSES ALTHOUGH it has been ascertained that the Romans understood the manufacture of glass, or at least they possessed some utensils of that material, it must not be supposed that they were accustomed to apply it to exclude the weather and transmit light for in no case has a glass window of any kind been discovered in any ancient structure, and, without contemplating the houses of Pompeii, it is impossible to appreciate the advantages we derive in our habitations from the application of that beautiful production of the useful arts, and how much superior it alone renders them to those of the ancients. The floors of the houses of Pompeii and Herculaneum are all of mosaic work, coarser and simpler in the less esteemed parts, and finer, and more ornate in the more finished apartments. The ornaments are borders, dots, frets, labyrinths, flowers, and sometimes figures. In this, too, the superior advantages the moderns enjoy are evident. The ancients did not understand how to construct wooden floors, at least the application of timber to that use was not made by them for, though it were admitted— which, however, it cannot be with justice-—that in the warmer climate of the south of Italy lithic floors would be more grateful, that would not be the case in this country ; and we find the remains of Roman houses, baths, &c., in England, with floors of mosaic, as in Naples and Sicily. All the indications which are found in Pompeii of an upper storey consist in a few rude and narrow stair-cases, which it is very probable were to afford access to the terraces or flat roofs, for they are not common, and no portion of an upper storey remains in any part, though the lower or ground floor rooms, it is most likely, were arched over. In one part of the city the houses on one side of a street are on a declivity ; there a commodious flight of stairs is found to lead from the atrium in front to another atrium and rooms

below, not under the houses, but behind them; for neither do we find an underground or cellar stoley in the Pompeiian houses. On the shores of the Bay of Bake and of the Gulf of Gaeta, at Cicero's Fomain Villa, however, there are crypts or arched chambers under the level of the mansions ; for the sites require substructions; but it may be questioned whether even these were used as parts of the house and as we use cellars, for they present no indications of stairs and have no regular means of intercommunication. Neither had the houses of the Roman's chimneys of any kind; their only mode of warming their apartments was by means of braziers, many specimens of which have been taken out of both Herculaneum and Pompeii ; and their cooking fires were on fixed gratings over a sort of stove, but without flues; so that most probably charcoal alone was burnt for domestic purposes. in this respect the modern Italians are not far behind their predecessors; and the mode used by them of applying fire in warming and cooking appears very similar to that used by the Romans. Indeed, many of the peculiarities we have noticed in the Pompeiian houses are still found in various parts of Italy and Sicily ; the cortili, courts, or cloisters of palaces, monasteries and inns are representatives of the cavaeha, vestibula, atria, of courts of Pompeiian or Roman mansions. It is common, too, in the former, for bedrooms to open on galleries, as on the colonnaded courts of the latter. There are instances also in the countries referred to of rooms which have no aperture but the doorway. Shops are frequently mere cells having an opening towards the street, part of which is a door, and the other part, with a low dado, a window. It was only in the forums and public places, then, that architectural beauty and magnificence were displayed in a Roman city. Street architecture was unknown and the decoration of houses was the work of the plasterer and painter rather than of the architect.



THE whole width and height of a room may be opened

and the partition completely concealed from observation, as is very desirable between front and rear parlors in private dwellings. No track or guide of any

kind is required on the floor, nor is it necessary to cut or injure a carpet over which it may be required to operate. By a

few simple additions to the ordinary mode of construction, the partition is made sound, dust and air-tight. For ease and certainty of operation this device is unsurpassed as there is no weight to lift or pull down or friction to overcome, the movements, whether for opening or closing, being horizontal, and independent of weight which is sustained from the ceiling on easily working friction rollers. Access from room to room may be had as by an ordinary door, without moving the other parts, a decided advantage for Sunday School class rooms and dwellings. By adopting this construction an auditorium m may be divided into any number of smaller rooms and afterwards opened out completely without interference with line of sight.



WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS TO

	<person>0. T. SPRINGER</person>	-	Patentee and Manufacturer	—BURLINGTON, ONT.









































HILLSBOROUGH, N. B., CANADA





















Rolling Steel Shutters.

English Venetian Blinds.

Rolling Venetian Blinds.



	GEO.	CLATWORTHY  General Canadian Agent	46 Richmond St. WEST, TORONTO ONT.

CATALOGUE AND PRICES ON APPLICATION	