<doctype type="text;ad">USEFUL HINTS.



<article title="Useful Hints" author="">The French and English papers, which are now used, come without friezes, which is a distinct gain in thc matter of height, while it possibly detracts from the breadth of a room.

The correct principle to observe in hot air heating is to supply a large volume of warm air, at a lower temperature flowing through the registers. Don't use a small furnace heated to a red hot heat, with small cold air supply, and a high temperature at the registers the latter plan is one that causes trouble, and brings condemnation to furnace heating.

Automatic COPYING OF LARGE DIAGRAMS.—TO secure exact copies, why the action of light, of large-sized illustrations and diagrams the prepared paper must be in immediate contact with the glass negative or the drawing. A certain pressure has, therefore, to he exerted, which is apt to break the glass. Mr. II. Sack, of Dusseldorf, spreads the paper on a rubber plate, and creates a partial vacuum between tile rubber and the glass. The frame is made









CREDIT VALLEY BROWN STONE

	Carroll & Vick's No	Quarry,

From	Credit Forks, Ont.



SANDSTONE, fine grained, reddish brown. contains quartz, and a little felspar and mica. The stone is. In beds of four feet and under, and can be handled in pieces up to five toils. Quarry 300 yards from Railway.

of pitels-pine the apparatus resembles a light table running on four rollers. The vacuum can easily be produced by means of a hand-pump, a pipe for establishing connection being fixed to the table.



TRACING DRAWINGS NGS. — A correspondent writing to an English architectural journal relative to the method of tracing drawings presents the following suggestions Prepare the tracing cloth or paper by first rubbing on it some finely powdered French chalk, and

then for doing the tracing use Indian or Chinese ink, in which a small quantity of prepared ox-gall has been rubbed up in ink. The tracing may be done by means of a good drawing pen. _______________





A fire-proof building is being erected on the corner of Craig and St. Lambert St, Montreal, for the main office cc of the Street Railway Company. About 500 tons Of iron girders will be used in it. The floors will be of terra cotta. It is so constructed that none of the weight of the upper storeys rests on the walls.

10 ARCHITECTS BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS



We are prepared to furnish from our

quarries in New Brunswick



BROWN AND OLIVE



 FREE STONE

it the finest quality and of any dimension.



Samples forwarded free and quotations

given on receipt pt of inquiry       

Correspondence solicited.



NM. HOOD & SON



14,905	pounds is the average crushing strength per

_________ square inch of our Credit Valley Brown Stone

The highest standard of test attained by any pure Sandstone in America.



J	of the facts above stated, we have pleasure in directing your attention to

accompanying table, showing the result of the test of our stone, in connection with

the series of tests of building stones conducted in 1892 at the School of Practical Science,

Toronto, under the direction of a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects.

By referring to the results of the tests above mentioned, it will be seen that the average

crushing stress of the majority of Canadian and American sandstone is far below that of

ours, the difference in our favor ranging from 75 to 50 per cent.

The Credit Valley Brown Stone, owing to its modest tone, harmonizes beautifully

with red or cream colored brick.

It has been reported that there is difficulty in obtaining Credit Valley Brown Stone. To correct this mistaken notion, we wish to state to architects and the public that we have a large quantity of stone ready to ship on the shortest notice, which can he followed up with an unlimited supply. Last year we made extensive additions to our plant arid opened



up new quarries and mines, and will supply promptly all orders given to us or our agents.



CARROLL & VICK

Quarries: Credit Forks, Ont	Office cc 84 Adelaide St. West, TORONTO.

	Montreal Agents: T. A. MORRISON	CO., 118 St. Peter Street.









NEW BRUNSWICK BROWN STONE

FROM







Clark's Quarries, Sackville, N. B.

Write FOR PRICES TO

For character of	see..	W ]\/1 CLARK

new City Buildings,	SAGKVILLE, N. 13.





Residence of Jas. Ross, Montreal—built of Miramichi Sandstone.

MIRAMIOHI STONE

Q

 NE of the most popular sandstone in thc market of a rich olive color----

great durability, easily wrought, and moderate price.



SALMPLES ON APPLICATION



Add ADDRESS





0.	L. FISH

French Fort QUARRIES,	Newcastle, Miramichi, N. &

