<doctype type="text">HALIFAX SANITARY REGULATIONS.

<article title="Halifax Sanitary Regulations" author="">THE Royal Gazette, the official paper of Nova Scotia contains the rules and regulations of the Board of Health, for the city of Halifax, for the guidance of architects, plumbers, householders and others using the water supply, to secure the sanitary condition of buildings. For purposes of comparison we reproduce them.

1.	It shall not be lawful to construct or extend any drain for the reception of sewerage or waste water under or into any building, or to connect the same with any public or other sewer or drain, unless the said drain shall in its plan and construction conform to the following requirements

(a)	An effectual hand-hole cleaning trap, of approved description and make, shall be placed in line of drain or soil pipe just before it leaves the premises.

(b)	Between the said trap and the foot of the soil pipe (to be situate as remote as possible from any opening into the house) there shall be connected with the main house drain an inlet pipe for the admission of fresh air, four inches in diameter, the mouth of which shall be left open and have a cap, giving an area of one-fourth more than the diameter of the inlet pine;

(c)	All soil pipes within the walls of any building shall be of cast iron, and continue to at least three feet above any opening in the roof which may be within fifteen feet of same, and three feet above any opening into any adjoining building or extension, when such building or extension is within fifteen feet of such pipe, and be left open so that the whole of the inside drainage may be thoroughly and constantly ventilated. All soil or vent pipes when they pass through the roof, must be properly flashed with 5 lb. sheet lead, and made water-tight.

(d)	Whenever in the opinion of tile plumbing inspector and the city engineer the trap provided for in section (a) would be liable to freeze, it may be dispensed with, and the fresh air inlet provided for in section (b) will not be required

(e)	The soil pipe shall have two cleaning out screws, one to be about twelve inches above and in front of the bend of the basement floor, and the other between the said bend and the outer wall of the house:

(f)	All drains and plumbing fixtures of any house or other building shall be provided with sufficient traps and vents to prevent gas from the sewer, drain or waste pipes from escaping into any apartment, and each such fixture shall have its own trap, with sufficient vent ; said trap to be placed directly under and as close as possible to fixture;

(g)	No fixture shall drain through more than one trap (main trap excepted) ; the vent to be not less than one size smaller than trap, and no vent of less than one and one-quarter inches in diameter; all traps must be protected from syphonage by special vent pipe;

(h)	No trap vent pipe shall be less than three inches in diameter where it passes through the roof, and all vent pipes must continue to rise after leaving the trap, and pass out through the roof or connect with the soil pipe;

(I)	The rule for soil pipe terminus, as herein before mentioned, shall govern said vent pipe

(j)	Vents of water-closet traps shall be two inches for a length of twenty feet and for a greater length three inches in diameter

(k)	No safe-waste, range boiler, refrigerator waste or cistern overflow shall be allowed to connect direct with any drain; the end of such wastes shall be covered by flap valves

(I)	Waste from bath and basin will not be allowed to connect to water closet bend, but must have a separate fitting or connection to receive the same, except where the bend is iron and situated below the ceiling;

(in) The waste pipe of bath basin or any fixture shall not be connected with the trap of a water closet or any other fixture. Exit pipes of all fixtures, except water closets, shall be furnished with suitable attached strainers. Overflow pipes from fixtures must in each case be connected on the inlet side of the trap.

(a)	The overflow pipe from the water closet cistern shall not be directly connected with the soil pipe of any fixture;

(o)	No pan closet shall be fitted up in any building, and no closet or other convenience which allows the escape into the house of air or gas which has been confined in any part of it, or from the drain or soil pipe, or which allows the accumulation of filth in or all out it, shall be fitted up or used

(p)	Sinks in all hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, laundries, or other places where the engineer or inspector of plumbing or other officer approved by the Board may direct, shall be provided with suitable grease traps.

2.	Each house or building must have its own separate soil pipe and drain and such soil pipe or drain shall be so placed as to be always readily inspected without destruction to walls, and the plumber shall he responsible for the proper connection of his work with the system of drainage, which connection shall be made by a cast iron bend and five feet of pipe extending horizontally from the vertical soil pipe, and no two or more houses or buildings shall have a drain in common until stitch separate drain passes outside the walls of the house or building which it serves. Where buildings are constructed flush with the line of the street two buildings may be connected with one six-inch or larger street drain with a V junction placed immediately in front of wall. All drains must he properly connected with the private drain, and not covered until inspected. In no case shall the drains between the walls of the house and the street line be laid until the private drain from the street line to the public sewer has first been laid and completed. Changes in direction of soil pipes shall be made with curved pipes, and connections with horizontal pipes shall be made with Y branches.

	3.	No iron pipe shall weigh less than the following per length of five feet:

		     6-inch diameter		too lbs.

		     5-inch	"	85

		     4-inch	"	45

		     3-inch	"	30

		     2-inch	"	20

All pipes, traps, bends or fittings shall be of good quality, and shall be

free from flaws or defects, and shall be of uniform thickness. No inverted joints of any kind will be allowed below any fixture.

4.	Every connection between lead and iron pipes shall be made with brass thimbles or ferrules, having properly wiped joints, and the ferrules shall be properly gasketted, leaded and caulked into the said pipe. Ferrules for four-inch pipes shall weigh not less than 2 1/2 lbs.; for three-inch pipe, not less than 1 3/4 lbs.. and for two-inch pipe, not less than I t-2 lbs., each ferrule not to be less than four inches in length. All lead pipes to have properly wiped joints. Where the trap to closet is above the floor the connection of the same to the soil pipe shall be made of brass and rubber, said brass flange to be not less than three-sixth of an inch thick and cast.

5.	No lead waste or vent pipe shall weigh less titan the following:

	inch in diameter - . - 6	lbs. per yard.

	1 1-4"		~.	 7

	I 1-2		....	 8

2	.... 10 1-2

2 1-2	.... 13 1-2

	3	''	. . . t6 1-2



4	---- 24



Trap vent pipes may be standard iron, with steam fittings: sheet metal will not he allowed. All traps and fittings shall be equal in quality and thickness to the pipe to which they are attached.



FOR WATER SUPPLY PLUMBING.

6.	Hereafter it shall be unlawful for any person (except the officers and servants of the city in the discharge of their duties) to attach, put in, lay- or re-lay, introduce, extend or alter any water pipe, tap, fitting, apparatus or appliance, by or through which city water may be supplied, drawn, distributed or used, unless such person or his employer holds a license from the city as a duly authorized plumber for that purpose.

7.	Application for laying of service pipes shall be made in writing at the city engineer's office and upon the required forums.

8.	Every house or building separately assessed on the line of street is entitled to one-half inch service pipe. Where pipe is supplied larger than half-inch an extra charge will be made.

9.	No two premises supplied with water front tile water works shall be dependent upon one service pipe beyond the street line, but each separate amid distinct or premises shall be supplied through a separate pipe provided with proper stopcocks or other means of cutting off tile water.

to. All service pipes upon the premises of water takers shall be laid at a depth of not less than five feet below. the surrounding ground, and must not be turned up or laid at a less depth where they pass through or under a cellar wall or into or through arty private premises, and where they cross or are near any other excavation, they must be properly protected against settlement.

II.	In all cases the water taker must show that the pipe laid within his premises is laid in accordance with the requirements of the city, and unless the same is shown to the satisfaction of the city engineer, connection shall not be made with the street pipe.

12.	When a service pipe has once been put into a house or premises by the city, the owner or occupant of time premises consenting, or not objecting to the position (if such service pipe, then no subsequent removal of such service pipe shall be made except at the expense of the owner, agent or occupant of the said premises

13.	For water works pressure no lead pipes shah weight less than the following:

	3/8 inches internal diameter.,	4 lbs. per lineal yard.

	1/2 inch	6 lbs.

	5/8 inch	8 lbs.

3/4 inch	" to lbs.

I-inch	'' 13 lbs.

14.	All water supply pipes shall be laid with due regard to danger from freezing, and be properly laid and graded, with a fall to a stop, amid wastecock placed in the cellar or other convenient point where they can be entirely drained off.

15.	All pipes in buildings must be so laid and placed as to be easily accessible.

x6. Water pipes or fittings on private premises must never lie laid, carried along or put near any external wall, doorway or window opening, or in any exposed position or other position where they would be liable to freeze, without being thoroughly boxed in, encased or protected to the satisfaction of the city engineer, or his authorized officer, so as to prevent the action of frost.

17.	If necessary to prevent freezing the pipes must be carried at a sufficient depth underground below the cellar no some convenient point in the interior of time building, from thence the pipes must be properly encased in suitable boxing of ample size, stuffed with some suitable approved non-conducting material, the pipe being carefully placed and secured in the center of the box.

18-	in case of leaky or improper pipes or fixtures tin any premises, the city engineer shall have authority to cut off time supply of water by shutting off the stopcock or by- detaching the service pipe from the main, and before the water is again turned on the pipes and fixtures shall be repaired or altered as required and the cost of detaching and re-attaching or of turning off and en the water shall be paid by the person owning or occupying the premises, amid no person supplied from such service shall have any claim against time city by reason of such cutting off of the water.

19.	Whenever any water taker has reason to fear that time water may freeze in any of the pipes or fittings on his premises, in spite of all precautions taken to prevent the saute, lie must be careful to see that the water is shut off from the premises at the stop and waste cock, amid the pipes emptied of water, except when actually needed for use.

20.	The fact of water being found running to waste from any pipe, tap or other water fitting will be held to be sufficient notice from the city engineer that the water is to be at once shut off from the premises as required by law. Water takers are cautioned that as a rule any noise heard in a pipe, even though no defects are visible, is an indication o

