



<doctype type="text">satisfied with his attainments, he resolved to take up the study of medicine. At Trinity Medical College he took the regular course in medicine, graduating at Trinity University in the spring of 1894. \While an undergraduate in medicine he won considerable distinction among his classmates as a student, carrying off his full share of scholarships and prizes.

Before the Technical School began he was engaged as a teacher in the city night schools for several years, and when that institution was commenced in Jan. '92 he was engaged as one of the teachers. Since that time he has remained on the staff, chiefly being engaged in teaching mathematical subjects. The principalship of the school was declared vacant at a Board meeting in August last, and after duly advertising for applications to fill the position, Mr. McMaster was selected from among a number who applied. His duties as principal began at the opening of the school on the 1St of October.

Judging from his active and energetic disposition, and his varied experience in teaching gained in all kinds of schools, as well as his extensive attainments in the various scientific departments of education, we expect an unusual measure of success for this institution.





<article title="The Ireland Building Collapse" author="">THE IRELAND BUILDING COLLAPSE.

THE grand jury in New York has found indictments for man  saughter in the second degree against the architect, inspector, clerk, contractor, superintendent and foreman mason of the Ireland building, which collapsed some time ago and killed fifteen people. This seems to be somewhat wholesale condemnation  but it is only right someone should be punished for a catastrophe which was the result of carelessness, or worse, somewhere.

The grand jury in addition to the indictments, condemn the building department and its regulations and suggest a number of desirable reforms. The principal changes are as follows:

That the soil upon which a building is to be erected shall be examined by a competent engineer, and a certificate filed with the department as to the unit of pressure per squire foot the soil will sustain that the department exercise a vigilant supervision by means of experts, over the laying of all foundations, and require a statement as to character and sufficiency of such foundations before the superstructure is proceeded with. The grand jury strongly condemn Mr. Ireland, censuring him for desiring to drive the best bargain possible, regardless of the safety and lives of the men imperiled by his penuriousness. It also points out that such catastrophe should be impossible in a civilized community and its occurrence proves either a serious defect in the law or culpable negligence in enforcing it. The provisions of the law allow a load of four tons to the square foot on any soil. The jury think one or one and a half tons the limit of safety on soil of a weak and yielding nature.

The testimony at the inquest proved that the direct cause of the disaster was a reduction in the thickness of the concrete footing of the column which gave way, to less than one third of that indicated in the architect's plans and specifications. This shows that there was culpable negligence somewhere.





<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

Thc two architectural and engineering journals of Australia have recently been merged into one, which we trust will be handicapped by nothing but its title viz,, "The Building and Engineering Journal of Australia and New Zealand and Australian Builder and Contractors' News."

We are indebted to the Builders' Exchange of Philadelphia for a copy of their annual Hand Book and Catalogue. The hook numbers upwards of 300 pages, and contains illustrations of thc headquarters of the Exchange, portraits of past and present officers, The code of practice governing its members, a list of members, the building and sanitary bylaws of the city, and a vast amount of other equally useful information. The Philadelphia Exchange is perhaps the most progressive and prosperous local organization of builders on this continent.





Hon. Russel Sage and other New York capitalists, with Mr. H. H. McLean, of St. John, N. B., are applying for incorporation to takeover the patents of the C old Car Heating Co. for Canada.

 Jererniah O'Neill, of Toronto, is bringing a claim against the Hamilton Bridge Co. for $1,500 damages arising out of injuries received while employed on the construction of the Simpson building.

<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect AND Builder



ST. JEAN BAPTISTE EVENING CLASSES.



The inauguration of evening classes organized by the St. Jean Baptists Society for the benefit of those desirous of obtaining knowledge in the different branches of art and science opened last week in thc Monument National. There were on the platform the Hon. Judge Loranger, in the chair the General Consul of France, Mr. Kleczkowski Messrs.

J.	C. Wilson, Judge Jette, j. X. Perrault, L 0. David, L. I. Boivin, Rev. Abbe Cohn, S. C. Stevenson, G. Boivin, lion. Jus. Royal, j. D. Rolland, Jos. Venne, A. Honnin and Hon. A. Desjardins.

Messrs. Boivin & Wilson spoke on the leaching of arts and trades, an(1 the professors of tile different classes each presented the programme they intend to pursue during the coming season, and discoursed briefly at thc same time on the various professions they represent. The following is a list of different classes, together with the names of their professors: Hon. Jos. Royal, Political Economy L. 0. David, Universal History jos. Venne, Architecture J. X. Perrault, Agriculture and Colonization; A. Bonnin, Applied Science.

The teaching in the Architectural class will consist of a series of lectures where in number, accompanied by lime-light views, illustrations and special geographical maps. The dales or the lectures are not yet definitely arranged, but are expected to he within a few days. The following are the subjects to be taken up at each meeting 1st, Cursory View of the History of India, Egypt and Assyria, illustrated by special geographical maps; 2nd, Building Construction in Stone and Brick 3rd, Greece and Rome 4th, Building Construction in Wood 5th, '[he Middle Ages—the Gallo-Roman period; 6th, The Building Trades, of so called secondary importance, such as copper, galvanized iron, lead, slate, marble, etc. 7th, The Middle Ages—the Gothic period 8th, The Modern Industries applied to Iron and Steel, and the Mode of Transportation, and Mechanical Execution 9th, The so-called Renaissance period; 10th Organization of Labor, ancient and modern 11th Thc Present Times; 12th, Retrospective Review.

The classes are entirely free of charge to everybody, and all are invited to attend thc same, irrespective of condition and position.

MASTER PLUMBERS ASSOCIATION.



As the result of a conference held recently between the wholesale dealers in plumbing and indicating apparatus and the Executive Committee of the Master Plumbers' Association, a Joint Committee was appointed, consisting of Messrs. James Robertson, of Thos. Robertson & Co.; Mr. McLaren, representing the Toronto Radiator Co. ,and Mr. Lekyer, representing the Gurney-Massey Co., on the one side and Mr. Jos. Lamarche, President, and Mr. 6. W. Hughes, Corresponding Secretary, of the Master Plumbers' Association, on the other, to devise means whereby more satisfactory trade relations than have heretofore existed may be established.

COUNCIL of ARTS AND MANUFACTURES.



Thc Plumbing Classes in connection with thc Council of Arts and Manufactures will open shortly. The instruction, as in former years, will be given under the direction of a Committee appointed by thc Master Plumbers' Association.

ARCHITECTS ACCOUNTS 



The daily press having been discussing the two accounts of Messrs. Perrault & Mann, architects, rendered the city of Montreal for professional services, and which seem in the eyes of certain aldermen disproportionately high, a representative of your correspondent met one of the architects, with the object of securing enlightenment on the matter. It appears that the account in connection with the fever hospital is not, as many believe, for services in connection with the existing buildings on Moreau street, as there was no architect whatever for the creation of tile building, everything being left in the hands of thc contractors, but it is for the preparation of a set of plans, estimates, etc., for a new hospital containing 180 beds, and studies for same, together with the expense of a trip to the States for the purpose of visiting similar establishrnents there, in accordance with orders given jointly by thc local and provincial health departments. As to the other account, the Market Committee  having no fixed idea as to what it intended to (10, had thc architects prepare two sets of plans and specifications, which were considered by the Committee, but finally set aside, and for which thc architects claim not to have received a cent. Their charges arc only at the ordinary percentage rate on such work for thc repairs of the market, which the Committee decided in thc end to preserve.

OBITUARY.



An old-time Montreal plumber has recently passed away in the person of Mr. A. Lothian, who at the time of his death was upwards of 79 years old. Deceased came to Montreal from Scotland in 1842, and assisted in the construction of the city water works.



THE CITY ANI) THE C. P. R.



The understanding arrived at some time ago by the city and thc C. P.R., under which a new passenger depot was to be erected in the east end, has been disturbed by thc substitution or another plan for the one which accompanied thc agreement

