	<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT 



<article title="New Canadian Patents" author="">NEW CANADIAN PATENTS.

AMONG the new patents granted in Canada as announced in the last Patent Record are the following relating to the building trade

Cleaner for Cisterns—Charles A. Butterfield, Dewitt Iowa. Window Fastener—Ernest. Peters, Tompkins, Mich. Door Fastener—-M. P. Pirtle and J. W. Miller, Louisville, Kentucky.

Fastening for Window Sashes and Slide Doors—D. A. Crichton, Los Angeles, California.

Fancy Brick, Etc.—The National Opalite Glazed Brick and Tile Syndicate, London, England.

Fire Escape—Wilbrod Bourdon, Vaileyfield, Que

Hasp—Wm. Firfield, Perth Amboy, N.J.

Weather Strip—Chas. M. Becker, Port Rowan Ont.

Chimney Cowl—Cyrus N. Shannon, St. Cloud, Minn.

Building Brick—Geo. S. Balsley, Detroit, Mich.

Hot Air Flue—Wm. H. Brinker, Pittsburg, Penn.

Sash. Cord Catch—John Wheatly, Hamilton, Ont.

Heating Drum — Thos. H. Wilson and Robt. Humphreys, Logansport Indiana.

Indicator Door Bolt—Wm. S. Burgess, Three Rivers, Que. Heating and Ventilation System—Wm. Bruce, Leeds, England. Heating Furnaces by means of Liquid Hydrocarbon—La Compagnie Internationale pour lExploitation des Procedes, Lyons, France.

Window Fastener—Laura Hofheimer, Brooklyn, N.Y.

Double Flushing Water Closet—Philip Nicoll, Toronto

Bath Tub—Robt. M. Wilson, Rome, N. Y.

Brick Kiln- Geo. S. M. Rutter, Canton, Ohio.

Stench Trap -Geo. Dunstan, Lorain, Ohio.

Window- J. A. Cleveland, Duluth, Minn.

Metallic Roof -L. S. Flutan, Dallas, Texas.

Hot Air and Steam Bath Apparatus—Salli Maschke, Berlin, Prussia.



The Laughlin-Rough Drawing Table Co., of Guelph have received an order from Ottawa for six of their large size tables.

Electricity is being used to operate the large stone saws at the government buildings at Victoria, B. C., now in course of construction.

Mr. J. R. Booth, of Ottawa, has purchased the Reefer stone quarry in Nepean, from which stone will be taken for the new central depot to be erected at the capital.

The contract. for 30,000 tons of cast iron pipe for the waterworks at Yokohama, Japan, was awarded to an Alabama iron company. It is said to he the largest order over given for American iron for foreign shipment.

A mortar composed of brick powder mixed with quicklime is largely used in France.

The Maritime Nail Co., with an authorized capital of $50,000,, has been organized at St. John, N. B.

The Northumberland Stone Co. has been formed, with a capital of $10,000. The incorporators live in Shediac, Sackville and Botsford, N. B.

Mr. H. Horskin and Mr. Hurlburt have entered into partnership at Bedford, Que., for the manufacture of sanitary ware, general plumbing goods, etc.

Arrangements are about completed whereby the partners formerly- interested in the British Columbia Pottery & Terra Cotta Co. will regain the ownership.

The Brockville Pressed Brick Co. are building railway sidings, arranging for the purchase of bush land for fuel supply, and otherwise improving their facilities.

The Union Bank has sold the C. 13. Wright brick yard near Hull to Messrs. Arthur, Walter and Thomas Farley for $20,000. The new firm will put in new machinery and operate the yard.

Attention is being directed to large deposits of asphalt which exist. on the Athabaska River, N. W. T. Tests made of specimens collected by members of the geological survey show it to be well adapted for the construction of roads, footpaths, courtyards, granary and warehouse floors, and also for roofing.

The Whitton Granite Quarry Co. has been incorporated, with

capital of $50,000. The incorporators are: Senator Bolduc, Mr.

Rufus H.. Pope, M.P.; Mr. Louis Israel Frechette, M.P.; Dr. G.

H.	Lacourciere, of St. Victor de Tring; Mr. Wilfred Trudeau, of

Fall River, and Mr. D. Alfred Roy, merchant, New Bedford,

Mass.

A company has been formed in the United States to supply contractors and builders with ready-made mortar. Their buildings at Pittsburg will be seven storeys high, and the mortar will be mixed on the top floor, and when it reaches thc ground will be ready for use. It is claimed a better quality of mortar can he thus supplied.

The announcement recently published that a deposit of the finest quality of roofing slate had been discovered in the township of Euphemia, Lambton county, Out., proves not to have been well founded. Mr. Archibald Blue, Director of Mines for Ontario, has lately visited thc locality and found thc deposit to consist of ordinary bedded shale.

R. McDOUGALL and Company Galt Ontario Hot Water Boilers

