

<doctype type="text">strange that a surveyor, who lays out a piece of property upon which a building is to be erected, should have to undergo a course of training and pass an examination before he can do so, while the architect, who plans and superintends the erection of the building, the most valuable  and important part of the property, involving considerations of comfort, safety and the pocket, may be a man utterly incompetent for the work which he undertakes to perform. The evil results of such incompetence is seen in a disaster like that of the collapse of the Ireland building in New York, which involved not only great destruction of property but the loss of fifteen lives.

But apart from this view of the matter, we should aim at improving our style of architecture. Why should our streets be lined with architectural monstrosities, when for the same money a building might be erected, which would be a thing of beauty and a joy forever? Architects should be artists as well as engineers and expert builders, and it is only by education that their tastes can be cultivated, and they become qualified to design buildings in which beauty may he combined with utility.

The great objection urged against a measure such as that referred to, and it has been brought against the medical and other similar licensing acts, is that it creates a close corporation, and that the examining and licensing body, composed necessarily of experts, is disposed to lay down such restrictions as to create a monopoly for its own benefit. While we admit that there is some force in the objection, such an evil can be guarded against by having the rules for admission, and tariffs of charges, made subject to approval by the lieutenant-governor in council, or some other competent authority, who would see that all interests were properly  guarded.

It is not the intention of the proposed act to interfere with the right of any person to plan his own building, or to employ anyone else, no matter who, to prepare his plans. It is proposed only to restrict the right of using the term " Architect "to those now practising, and to such persons as in the future shall take a proper course of study and undergo the prescribed examinations. Under  the act of 1890, incorporating the Ontario Associations  of Architects, the title " Registered Architect" is given to such as have or may qualify, but the distinction  between " Architect" and "Registered Architect" is too fine for the general public to understand, and the provisions of the present law have, therefore, failed in their purpose, and the public have not received the protection which it was designed to give. The proposed act is, we consider, one which may well be enacted in the interests of the people.

A number of states in the American union are likely to pass similar measures. In New York such a bill was before the legislature at its last session, but did not pass. It will probably come up again at an early day, and Illinois and California, with no doubt others, will soon have such laws.



Mr. R. M. Fripp, architect, of Vancouver, recently gave a lecture on '' Simplicity in Architecture."

Mr. A. C. Hutchison, the well known architect of Montreal, is announced to give a lecture on Rome, illustrated with stereopticon views, in St. James Square church, Toronto, on the 20th of December. Mr. Hutchison has recently returned from a trip to Europe, and his lecture will doubtless be full of interest.

<article title="About Paving Materials" author="">ABOUT PAVING MATERIALS.

ALTHOUGH asphalt has come into pretty general use for street paving, there are some serious objections to it, and it is evident that we have yet to discover something which will be better adapted for street paving than anything now in use. Asphalt is expensive, and in damp weather, or a moist climate, is so slippery as to be unsafe. As a test on the latter point a record was kept by the city engineer of London, England, of the accidents arising from the condition of the streets, for fifty days, with the following result Asphalt 1066 granite 719, wood 542. These figures indicate a serious objection to asphalt in such a climate as that of England.

The city of Halifax, Nova Scotia, has been making some experiments in paving materials for sidewalks, and the city engineer, in his report, recommends concrete on level streets, and asphalt for hills and less import ant streets. The cost of the former averaged $1.83 per square yard, while the latter cost only 70 cents, and under ordinary conditions could be put down for considerably less. The kind of asphalt pavement used is not specified, but from the low cost we infer that it is not such as would be suitable for roadways. This however, by the way.

Wood block pavements have much to recommend them, but a great deal depends on the variety of wood and the way they are laid. Cedar blocks, so extensively  introduced in Toronto and other cities in America some years ago, have not been a success. They will not stand heavy traffic and have been pronounced unsanitary. Hardwood is now being tried, and the Timber Trades Journal declares that in the near future the whole of London will be surfaced with wood. The variety now being used is the Australian jarrah, which has been tested in the metropolis, on some of the Paris boulevards, and in some of the provincial towns, in every case with satisfactory results. It has supplanted everything except Baltic fir, and is gradually but surely displacing that. If blocks four inches deep will answer, and they are now being tried, it will bring the cost down almost to that of Baltic fir, which has to be laid six inches thick.

 Jarrah is the hardest and most durable of all Australian woods, and it is stated it will resist the wear and tear of London street traffic as long as granite. It is free from knots and does not shrink to any appreciable degree, the grain is close and tenacious, and it resists the influence of damp and moisture, in fact, being of the eucalyptus family, it is a valuable antiseptic, rendering it valuable from a sanitary point of view. It affords a good foothold for horses without being slippery. What more need be said in its favor?

Other Australian hardwoods are being tried in Great Britain, one known as karri being apparently second only to jarrah, and Tasmanian blue-gum is to be tested in Glasgow. It is, of course, too much to expect that any of these foreign woods will come into use in Canada, where we have so much wood of our own. Vitrified  brick, if it can be brought down to a reasonable price, will probably be the pavement of the future in Canadian and American cities. Trap rock, referred to by us in the November number, may supplant the ordinary  macadam for boulevards and park drives, but it would probably be too dusty for business streets and could hardly withstand heavy traffic.

One of the most unlikely paving materials which has

