<doctype type="text">THE  CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



had lately been removed. He thought an instance of the detrimental effect on good acoustics o(a high ceiling was to be found in the chamber of the <building>Parliament Buildings in Toronto</building>, which was one of the worst rooms possible for hearing in.

<person>Mr. Wickson </person>facetiously suggested that that might be due to the influence of having been designed by an American architect.

Commander Law asked if the <building>Massey Hall </building>was regarded as a good building acoustically, and what effect[ the "gingerbread" work had on its acoustic properties

<person>Mr. Edwards </person>said he had no knowledge of the acoustic properties of the building referred to, and had only spoken of it with reference to its structural resemblance to the New York Casino.

Mr. <person>C. H. C. Wright</person>, Lectauer in Architecture at the School of Practical Science, then read an interesting paper on " Portland Cement," which is printed elsewhere in this issue.

A paper was also read by <person>Mr. McCarthy</person>, which, with the discussion thereupon, will be printed in a future number.

<person>Mr. Townsend</person>, on behalf of the committee appointed to consider the matter of the library, presented the following report



<article title="Report of Committee Appointed to Consider the State of the Library" author="">REPORT OF COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO CONSIDER THE

STATE OF THE LIBRARY.

Your committee—while recognizing the absurdity of attempting to furnish the members of the Association with architectural books to read, at a cost to the Association of something over one dollar for each reading, feel that to dispose of the library-- constituting  as it does one of the strongest bonds of union in the possession of the Association—would be a very serious mistake.

They are of the opinion that, notwithstanding the fact that but few members have availed themselves of the privilege of reference to the books, this privilege is of considerable value to many members of the Association, particularly to those members who are so placed as to be unable to make use of the larger city libraries, and therefore recommend that in place of disposing  of the library or transfer ring it to other institutions, every effort should be made to increase its efficiency, both by purchase of additional books—so far as the funds at the disposal of the Council will admit—and by endeavoring to obtain donations from members and others interested in architectural education.

They believe that books of a strictly technical nature being of comparatively little value to persons outside the profession, a properly circulated appeal might result in considerable increase to the library from bequests and donations from members giving up practice. Such an appeal is meeting with a very hearty response in the society of engineers.

The Architectural Association of the Province s unquestionably ably a most qualified custodian for architectural works of reference which have become public property, and your committee believes that if the Association library becomes properly established and generally used, it is reasonable to expect that other bodies having control of architectural books will transfer them to the Association, just as the Public Library Board has recently handed the medical books of that institution over to the Medical Association.

They would further recommend that until the finances of the Association are in a better condition, purchases should be confined to books necessary to the students in preparing for their examinations, and those dealing with the most modern methods of construction, nature and properties of building materials, and other matters of a practical nature.

In conclusion, they would suggest that the cost of managing the library be reduced to a minimum, and that a circular be sent to all members explaining the conditions upon which the books are loaned.

<person>S.H. TOWNSEND</person>,

<person>M.B. AYLSWORTH</person>,

<person>C.H C. WRGHT</person>,

<person>A.H. GREGG</person>,

<person>A.FRANK WICKSON</person>.



The President said he had listened to the report just read with more pleasure than to anything else during the present convention.

Mr. Aylsworth moved the adoption of the report, seconded by Mr. Townsend.

The President said he understood it was the intention to send on the report as a recommendation to the Council.

Mr. Townsend replied that was the intention.

The President then asked for discussion on the report t of the committee.

Mr. W. R. Gregg suggested that a certain sum of money be each year devoted to the improvement of the library, no matter how small that amount might be.



Mr. Gordon approved of the suggestion, and thought a resolution should be passed to the effect that the yearly revenue over and above the sum necessary for the economical administration of the Association should be applied to increasing the library.

Mr. Townsend thought the recommendation on the subject contained in the report was in better form than that suggested. The Council was certainly in a better position to judge of the financial standing of the Association than the convention could be Gordon thought too many things were being thrust upon

the Council, and the members throughout the province consequently felt little responsibility with regard to the work of the Association. He would embody his ideas in a motion that all revenue received by the Association over and above that which is necessary for the efficient administration of the affairs of the Council, should be devoted to improving the library.

Mr. Billings seconded the motion.

The President sad the motion could be made after the report had been adopted.

Mi. Power thought Mr. Gordon's remarks pointed in the right direction, and the course he proposed would, as he said, throw the responsibility more on the members, which was desirable in his opinion.

The report of the committee was then adopted.

Mr. Gordon then moved that it be an instruction to the Council that all surplus revenue yearly over and above what is necessary for the efficient and economical administration of the affairs of the Association, be devoted to the increasing of the efficiency of the library.

The President said if there were a surplus of fees over expenses amounting to say $500 it would be rather a questionable proceeding to spend it all on the library.

Mr. Aylsworth said he understood the resolution only contemplated dealing with the revenue of each year. Last year there had been no surplus, but during the coming year it is hoped there would be a small amount

The motion was then carried

The members paitook of luncheon served in an ante-room of the School of Practical Science at p in.



AFTERNOON SESSION.

On resuming proceedings at 2 30 p. in., <person>Professor Coleman</person>, of the School of Practical Science, read a paper on "The Weathering of Building Stones," which appears on another page.

<person>Mr. Darling </person>spoke of the peculiar way in which some of the projecting stones in a building erected by him, and in which great care was exercised in selecting the stone, had become damaged, apparently by water soaking through the exposed surface being perfectly sound and good and the damage occurring where it was perfectly dry. He was unable to understand how the water could soak through.

Professor Coleman inquired if it was a white efflorescence?

Mr. Darling said it was.

Professor Coleman suggested the presence of iron pyrites in the stone.

Mr. Darling stated that it "'as chosen because of its supposed freedom from iron.

Prof. Coleman expressed his willingness, if furnished with specimens, to endeavor to ascertain the cause of the action.

The President Enquirer if there was any likelihood of the water soaking through vertically.

Mr. Darling said that was exactly what seemed to have taken place.

Professor Coleman said there must be some soluble salt in it

—perhaps a sulfide.

The President had noticed in the Bank of Commerce, that the underside of the Connecticut brown stone of which it is constricted was becoming friable.

Mr. Townsend said there were indications of the same kind in a great many stones in Paris, and the explanation was offered that the water gets into the stone and gets down a certain distance, and not being able to dry out, found certain salts.

Professor Coleman said unless there was something in the stone that would dissolve that could not happen there must be some sulfide or something of that kind.

<person>Mr. Power </person>said there was a limestone in Kingston which was affected in the same way, in St. George's Cathedral in that city.

Mr. Billings referred to a similar effect at Ottawa in certain balustrades of Ohio sandstone in the Parliament buildings which had crumbled away.

<person>Mr. Tully </person>said that some years ago his attention was drawn to the yellow sandstone at Osgoode Hall the baltisters at the center entrance being all decayed away—the surface completely gone. As architect for the Government, it gave him some concern, and he spoke to a. painter admit it, who invented a paint which was effective in arresting the decay On finding the paint efficacious he induced the Commissioner to have all the stone work of the building painted with it, because the surface of all the stone was becoming affected in the same way. Some critic in the newspaper had referred to the bad taste displayed in painting the stone work of a beautiful building like Osgcode Hall, but it was a necessity in order to preserve it. He would not advise architects to permit the time of that yellow stone.

Mr. Darling pointed Out that in the <building>Molsons Bank </building>and the old <building>Board of Trade building</building>, constructed of Ohio stone, the surface was in almost perfect condition.

The committee appointed to bring in a report in regard to a revision of fire by-laws, then presented a report dealing in detail with several points in which buildings could be better protected from damage by flue.

Mr. Aylsworth was of opinion that some provision should be made that elevators and stairs should be separated as far as possible.

The President suggested as changes desirable in the report. the addition of fire proof shutters on all windows above ground floor, on main areas or narrow thoroughfares, and a reduction of

