<doctype type="text">The architectural department of the School of Practical Science is making considerable progress and appears to have developed as fast as the funds at disposal will permit. The period of study embraces a course of 3 years with a 4th or post graduate course. An expansion of the course, however, is a prime necessity if this department is to be fully and properly developed. If this is not done, there is a danger that the architectural schools in the United States will attract many of our young men, who can afford the additional expense, by reason of the more complete courses of study afforded, including training in design, a most necessary phase of an architectural student's education. The architectural library of the school is growing by judicious purchases including valuable photos of ancient and modern buildings. Having begun the work it behooves the Ontario Government to as wisely forward the development of this department as it has that of the engineering department. Failing this, much that has already been done will fail of its expected result.

In connection with the School of Science, I would here refer to the series of tests which have been made during the past year in the institution by Mr. Wright with our local Portland cement. This industry has witnessed a remarkable development during the past decade which is an evidence of the increasing demand for more enduring methods of street paving and better building construction.

The Toronto Technical School conducting evening classes is an institution which is doing a considerable service for Toronto architectural students in helping to prepare them in mathematics for the Ontario Association of Architects examinations. Eleven architectural students and ten draughtsmen were in attendance at the classes of

1893-94.

The three chief architectural bodies in the mother land appear, from their reports, to have been actively engaged during the past year. The Royal Institute of British Architects in November last inaugurated a system of progressive examinations, which have succeeded the former and partly tentative arrangement. The President, Mr. <person>F. C. Penrose</person>, F. R. S., in a late address considered that these examinations "could not but have an excellent effect first and directly in securing to future members of the Institute the reputation of having satisfied a certain standard of proficiency; secondly and indirectly by excluding from the Institute in the first instance and by reaction from the profession at large, young men whose abilities would have been more advantageously directed towards the pursuit of some other calling." Some conception of the work of the Institute and the number of architectural students may be found from the following figures, viz: In the preliminary examinations 165 students attended, 28 were conditioned and 136 passed. In the intermediate 55 attended, 19 were conditioned and 36 passed, while in the qualifying or final examinations 150 attended, 84 were conditioned and 63 passed. The Journal of the Royal Institute forms a quarterly volume of exceeding value and interest, many of the papers being profusely illustrated.

The Architectural Association appears to be a model institution, and doing good work in the matter of architectural education. Its classes are divided into two groups—the lecture and the studio side—with courses or years divided into four divisions, with examinations, medals and certificates in each. In addition there are valuable prizes as follows: Architectural association medal with a prize of the value of 10 guineas; measured drawing prize; essay prize, value 10 guineas, and silver medal ; Gates scholarship tenable for two years; travelling studentship with bronze medal and the Oliver prize. These prizes were awarded at the opening of the session, and the President, <person>Mr. Mountford, </person>F.R.I.B.A., in stating that the past session had been the most successful one under the present order of things, announced that of the 96 new members who joined their ranks last session no less than 73 joined either the classes or studio, while 78 students took up complete courses of lectures and classes.

The third of the Associations referred to—the Society of Architects— is also a flourishing institution, with over 500 members and associates on the roll. The Society is ten years old and has been incorporated one year. It supports a journal which includes in its columns the proceedings of the Society, architectural notes and queries, notes on new books, etc. A somewhat unique feature of this Society is the periodical visits of the secretaries to the members residing in various provincial towns. It is also in contemplation to hold meetings in large provincial centers if the members in those districts indicate a substantial interest in the scheme. The Society has decided that after Oct., 1896, election to membership will only be open to candidates who have passed certain prescribed examinations, making exceptions however in favor of applicants over the age of 35 and who have practised for seven years. The adoption of this scheme by the third great architectural body has given rise to some dissension regarding the question of confining the examinations  to a sole examining body, one of the past presidents maintaining that all examinations ought to be in the hands of the older and representative body, the R. I. B. A.

The R. I. B. A. is named in the registration bill as the sole examining body, the promoters belonging to various architectural societies having made this concession to the Institute. The Institute, however, persists in opposing the bill, taking the high ground that the members of a great profession should carry on their work in a manner perfectly free from the trammels of legislation. The R. I. B. A. at the same time admits that its provincial members, especially, are subject to the "depredations of unprincipled quacks." The only remedy suggested by the Institute is, that the provincial newspapers be used in disseminating the fact that the members of the Institute have signed a declaration that they will not accept illicit, or surreptitious commissions, and that they will be bound by the rules of the Institute. It is to be feared that it will take a great many years to educate the public by this means. Legislation has not curtailed the usefulness of the legal and medical societies, neither should it that of the architectural, and the quackery complained of would soon be a thing of the past were it obtained.

The various architectural societies in the provinces of the United Kingdom are being affiliated with the Royal Institute, under the name of Allied Societies, with centers in the various large cities, thus very greatly extending the influence of the Institute and the prestige of the profession.

The 28th annual convention of the <assoc>American Institute of Architects </assoc>was held in New York in October last. The membership of 475 Fellows was reported the same as the preceding year, the increase having exactly equaled the falling off. The chapters of the Institute number 26, with an aggregate membership of about 6oo. A most important amendment to the by-laws was passed By this amendment, an architect, in order to become a member of the Institute must first join one of its chapters, and every practising member of a chapter must become a member of the Institute. There is quite a possibility of friction arising out of this state of affairs, as some of the local bodies, notably the Boston chapter, have a greater voting strength outside than inside the membership of the institute, The two most important reports presented at the convention were, that on Education through Mr. H. Van Brunt, and on Competitions through Mr. Geo. B. Post. The report on education is a notable production of literary merit, and will repay a careful perusal, as it advances several good suggestions regarding the present phases and necessities of a proper architectural education. An important measure in the interests of architecture is now before Congress. It is known as the McKaig bill, and deals with the much vexed question of the preparation of designs for the government buildings. Under it a commission is to be appointed by the President, consisting of a board of two government engineers and three architects of high attainment and large practical experience. This Board is, in the case of buildings costing less than $100,000, to select an architect without competition, employing him to prepare the designs, working drawings and specifications. In the case of buildings costing more than the above amount, the Board is to inaugurate a limited competition, selecting at least five firms, and all competitors to be paid at the rate of one-tenth or on the estimated cost of the building. It is fully expected that the inauguration of this departure from the present method will mark the commencement of a new and brilliant era in the character of government buildings in the United States.

It will be seen from these brief outlines that the English speaking societies of the architectural world are making the education of architects their chief business. The British societies are all looking towards an educational test for membership; they, with the strength gained through numbers, are conducting classes with progressive and systematic studies and examinations which are yearly becoming more exacting. In addition to the work of the societies, most of the large centers have the advantage of splendidly equipped technical schools, many of which have special classes for preparing students for the examinations of the architectural societies. The University of London is also abreast of the times, having a chair of architecture ably filled by Mr. T. Roger Smith. Our association is to some extent following the lines of the English societies in regard to examinations, preliminary, intermediate and final, the latter admitting to membership; but, so far, through lack of means and strength, without the establishment of classes. The Americans, on the other hand, have, so far, instituted no examinations for admission to membership, and have not, through their chapters or institute, organized any system of classwork. The development of architectural departments in many of the United States colleges, however, has been very marked, largely taking the place of the English methods, and in some of them the courses of study have become very thorough, the influence of the Paris school being predominant. This, with the return of American students from the Paris Ecole de Beaux Arts, has greatly stimulated the spread on this continent of that phase of Renaissance architecture which has long been the fashion in Europe and which bore such abundant fruit in the buildings of the great Fair at Chicago. A <assoc>Society of Beaux Arts </assoc>has been organized in New York, composed of men who have studied in the Paris school. The primary object of this society is to preserve among its members the traditions of the French school and to propagate its methods in the United States and thus educate the younger men in the profession along its lines. Quarterly competitions have been established, conducted similarly to those in Paris, and open to all students of architecture. Several of the members have opened ateliers and conduct them on similar models to those of the patrons in Paris.

But from the expressions sent forth by the leaders of architectural thought, there is an evident movement towards a more thoughtful and appropriate treatment of the architectural problems of to-day. They are depreciating the selection and slavish copying of certain historic styles, and yet insisting that the study of all the historic styles should be systematized and coordinated, not, as Mr. Van Brunt says, "with the minute patient scrutiny of the archaeologist ; but with the spirit of the artist seeking to learn how forms and ornament were developed out of the genius of civilizations and peoples and how, as they were significant of the progress of human culture in the past, they should be used in the service of modern art."

The need of our architectural era is therefore without doubt such education in design as will enable us to make architecture as a fine art keep pace with science, In the mediaeval times the scientific practical constructor and the artist were one person; in our times they are practically two. Must we not at least learn how to unite the two into one with our new problems and new materials? Engineering needs to be converted into architecture and the architecture of the near future must therefore be made to conform to this new character. Practitioners engrossed with the details of business are too busy to solve these problems or to enter into the study necessary to satisfactorily solve them without a long process of evolution, with many hideous examples and failures on the way, as we are witnessing in the high structures of to-day. The schools then must needs help us with, to again quote Mr. Van Brunt, "a much more scientific co-ordination of precedent, a much more philosophic analysis 01 the architecture of the past than is secured by our present methods of education."

I must not close without reference to the severe visitation of fires which has caused such a stir and comment in Toronto during the past few days. Advantage should be taken of the occurrence by all architects to inculcate and advocate the necessity of erecting a more solid class of structure in the business districts. It may not be possible to accomplish this with clients who are anxious to erect the largest buildings for the least money; but we can at least lend our aid to the enactment of more stringent building laws and the enforcement of closer and more intelligent inspection of buildings under course of erection. It seems to me that the chief

