

<doctype type="text"><person>Mr. Billings </person>took exception to the sense in which the terms "Resident Members" and "Non-Resident Members" were used in the report. He thought the Association being a Provincial one, that all members residing within the Province should be termed resident members, and not only those living in the City of Toronto and the County of York.

<person>Mr. Townsend </person>said the use of the word in that way was merely an error, which had no doubt occurred in the endeavor to distinguish between members residing within the City of Toronto and the County of York and those living elsewhere in the Province. He felt sure there was no intention on the part of the Toronto members to regard themselves as the only resident members.

The Registrar stated that the term referred to had been used in the by-law governing the classification of members, which was passed by the Council, and had in that way come into use, but he never made use of it in sending out notices in regard to the payment of fees, &c., without feeling its inappropriateness.

The President said he had no doubt if it was felt by the meeting that a change in this particular was desirable, the Council would willingly make it.

On motion by <person>Mr. Aylsworrh</person>, seconded by <person>Mr. Gibson, </person>the report was adopted.

<person>Mr. Paull </person>expressed his appreciation of the comprehensiveness  and instructive character of the President's address, and desired to call attention to some points referred to in it which he considered of great importance. One of these was the allusion to what was being done in Montreal in the appointment of a committee to look after monuments, &c., and to impart a more aesthetic spirit to the way in which such works were designed and carried out. Such a committee of architects, he thought, would be of great advantage to Toronto in the way of inducing authorities, where opportunity offered, to widen our streets and give open spaces such as were found in Detroit and other American cities. The President had also referred to the London competition It was understood that in that competition there had been very considerable variation from the instructions issued, and he thought it would be well if the Ontario architects would take the practice of English architects as their example in that respect.

In a competition for civic buildings in Birmingham, England, some twenty years ago, the umpire, <person>Mr. Waterhouse</person>, declined to give the award to the plan which he thought had most merit simply because it departed from the instructions in the fact that a bridge not called for by them connected the public buildings and the new hall. A different system from that prevailing here was adopted in England regarding the premium given competing  architects. In the case of the law offices they offered a premium of £1,000 to each of ten or twelve architects for their plans, and paid the one whose design was chosen, five per cent.

<person>Mr. Tully </person>said that before the discussion closed he desired to refer to the recent fires that had taken place in Toronto. He thought the civic authorities had made themselves subject to adverse criticism by the changes made in the fire by-law regarding the thickness of walls. After the great fire of 1849 the corporation asked the architects of the city to frame a by-law and he had been one of the architects on that occasion. After a hill discussion of the matter, extending over a month, a by-law was framed by the architects and adopted by the Council, and remained in operation for a few years, but through the pressure brought to bear by speculative builders and others interested in putting up inexpensive buildings, this by-law was eventually amended, and had been at different times since amended in a way not at all in the public interest. Had the by-law framed by the architects remained in force he had no doubt much loss would have been saved to both owners of buildings and insurance companies. He thought it would be well before the convention adjourned to adopt a resolution calling attention to these facts, and offering, if the Corporation would refer the matter to the Association, to frame a new by-law, or suitably revise the existing by-law regarding building and fire limits in such a way as would prevent a recurrence of the late calamities. He thought such an offer would convince the citizens that the Association had their interest at heart, and if a proper by-law was framed it might be adopted not only in Toronto, but in other cities in the Province, and thus decrease the loss by fire now sustained by the community. He was much pleased with the manner in which the matter was alluded to in the President's address.

Mr. Gordon said that the matter had been alluded to at the meeting of the Council in the morning, and before the convention adjourned a resolution very much along the lines suggested would be submitted.

The President remarked upon the great pleasure he, and he was sure all the members, felt in having among them to-day Mr. Tully. When Mr. Tully referred to the year 1849, most of the members would realize that that was before they were born. In regard to the proposed revision of the fire by-law, he would say that two or three years ago the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Guild </assoc>was asked to appoint a couple of members to co-operate with a committee from the City Council in regard to that matter. The work of the committee, however, was so intermittent, and the gentlemen from the Council appeared to know so much more of the subject than the architects, that many of the suggestions made were ignored, and the architects never saw the revised by-law until it was printed, and therefore could not in

any way be held responsible for the inadequacy of the present regulations. It was the intention of the Council of the Association that the matter should be brought to the attention of the Mayor and Council.

Mr. Tully did not think the Association should consent to act in conjunction with persons not professional men in this matter. The City Council should refer the whole matter to the Association, who would draw up an amended by-law and send it on to the City Council as what they recommended. If that body then chose to amend the by-law the responsibility would rest upon them. He thought it would be most objectionable for the members of the Association to be placed on a committee of laymen, with whom they would have to wrangle in regard to the matter. He felt sure the public at large would support the architects in any by-law they would frame.

Mr. Paull thought the matter was one of the highest importance, and that it was imperative that some such action as that proposed by Mr. Tully should be taken, and he had prepared a memorandum dealing with the subject which he would read. "The recent experiences in this city in regard to the large fires; the great loss of property by owners; the great loss by insurance companies; the great and providential escape by the falling of snow from even greater calamities—but for snow we might have had a similar experience to Chicago and Boston. Now a very important question arises, what is to be done for future protection against fire in Toronto? The answer to this question is a problem worthy of solution by the architects of the Ontario Association. No doubt with proper precaution and watchfulness much danger may be avoided. Outside of the buildings themselves there exist some means of salvation, as for instance, the procuring by the City Corporation of suitable and effective steam fire engines ; the substitution of larger mains than those now in use, as recommended by Mr. Keating, the City Engineer. More care should be taken by the fire insurance agents themselves; more watchfulness by selected nightwatchmen, by the warehouse men and others of Toronto. But the erection of the buildings themselves is what more immediately concerns the architectural profession, so as to have all the available safeguards that can be possibly and prudently introduced during the erection of such buildings for the best protection against fire.

"First, as great care as possible to be taken by isolation from the surrounding buildings either in space or by effective outside walls.

"Second, the introduction by the Corporation of Toronto of the London (England) Building Acts as to brick walls and other building appliances now in operation in the largest city in the world.

"Third, great care in the selection, as far as possible, of indestructible materials, and such as will stand the action of great heat and steam.

"Fourth, greater introduction of hydrants into any newly erected buildings.

"Fifth, careful general supervision.

"Sixth, special care in the heating and ventilation.

"Seventh, introduction of new methods by the architectural profession, such as automatic apparatus, &c."

Mr. Tully, while agreeing that Mr. Paull's remarks were practical, considered that in any action it might take, the Association should confine its attention strictly to buildings. As an engineer he had his own opinion on the question of water mains, and he thought that defective methods in introducing electricity into buildings was a source of danger, and might possibly have been the cause of the recent fires, but these were matters which should be dealt with by the engineers and electricians. He did not think the insurance companies appointed proper surveyors when insuring buildings, many of them being men having no knowledge of architecture, and he could not believe that any man without that knowledge or a practical knowledge of the value of material could make an accurate estimate.



NEW BUSINESS.

The President invited the Association to consider the suggestions  thrown out in his address in regard to an exhibition of architectural drawings annually.

Mr. <person>H. B. Gordon</person>, in order to bring the matter before the Association, moved "that it be a recommendation to the incoming Council that it is desirable to have an exhibition of architectural drawings held in Toronto at the time of the Industrial Fair, or about that time, when cheap railway fares would be an inducement to outside members to come in."

Mr. Harper seconded Mr. Gordon's resolution.

Mr. Billings (Ottawa) called attention to the fact that such an exhibition was a feature of the meetings of the Royal Academy. Though poor, so far as numbers were concerned, the exhibit was good in quality.

The Registrar suggested the holding of the exhibition in connection with the annual exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy.

<person>Mr. Billings </person>approved of the suggestion, the more so that the Canadian Academy, like the Association, was "a struggling industry."

Mr. Gordon expressed his willingness to so amend his motion that the exhibition could be held at the time of the Canadian Academy's exhibition.

The motion as amended was then carried.

The Registrar said that, beginning at Chicago, and taken up

