

<doctype type="text">in Montreal and Quebec, a movement was on foot for the formation of societies to have the supervision of the ornamentation and laying out of those cities. He thought the Association ought to keep this in view, and inaugurate some similar action in Toronto. It might be some time before such an association was thoroughly recognized by the city, but he moved that the Council of the Association be instructed either to communicate with the City Council, with a view to establishing, if possible, such an association, or to consider how best to form such an association as would be recognized by the City Council.

<person>Mr. Townsend</person>, in seconding the motion, said he considered it a matter of very great importance that some standard of good taste should be established in connection with the matters referred to, and he could see no other way of establishing it than by the formation of such a body as suggested.

<person>Mr. Paull </person>agreed as to the importance of the suggested step, and instanced the proposed utilization of the Old Upper Canada College grounds as a hotel site as a matter in which such a society might find something to do. There was no site in the city better adapted for making a display worthy of it, similar to the Champs Elysee in Paris, The tendency in Toronto seemed to be towards covering every open spot of ground with buildings. If the promoters of the hotel project, instead of putting the hotel in the east end, would contribute $100,000 more and place the hotel in the center of the block, there would be room for ornamentation. Unless something was done very shortly this opportunity  would be lost.

<person>Mr. Gregg </person>thought that too much was being put into the hands of the Council, and that the present matter was one in which the Association as a whole was interested. Would it not be well to leave it in the hands of a committee of the Association residing in Toronto?

The President suggested that there were other places besides Toronto in which such action as was proposed might be desirable. A committee might be formed, representing all the cities of the Province, who would be in close touch with each other. He thought that a pronouncement on this subject coming from the Association would have much weight, and there was no reason why the movement should be restricted to Toronto.

Mr. Townsend was of the opinion that a representation coming from the Association as a whole would carry more weight than one from a local committee.

Mr. Aylsworth favored Mr. Gregg's view, because the Council met so seldom that it had little time in which to deal with such matters, and the Council did not seem to be very well known to the public. Instead of attempting anything so ambitious as the plan in connection with the hotel, he thought much might he effected in a smaller way to the advantage of the city. For instance, at the head of Bay St., opposite the new city buildings, the corners might be cut away to give an open area, and a fountain or statuary placed in the vacant space. Something of the same kind might be done at the corner of King and Yonge Streets, as it would not cost very much, now while the old buildings remain, to acquire the two north corners and cut them away, leaving a resting spot in the center.

Mr. Gregg moved in amendment that the Council appoint a committee of members to consider the question of forming a larger committee of citizens.

<person>Mr. Gouinlock </person>thought the matter was one which could be bet better handled by the " Guild" than by the Association; he was unable to see in what way outsiders were interested in it.

Mi. Paull provoked some laughter by inquiring. "What is the Guild ?" or "Who are the Guild ?" He had supposed that when the Association was formed the Guild was at an end. He felt assured that action taken by the Association would be more effective than if taken by the Guild.

<person>Mr. Wickson </person>expressed himself in favor of action being taken by the Association rather than by the Guild. He did not think it well for the latter body to bring itself before the public.

Mr. Gouinlock said that leaving the Guild entirely aside, the matter was one of interest only to city architects ; it was something referring to the City of Toronto, and not the Province at large.

Mr. Wickson dissented from that view. Other cities in the Province were interested both in the matter of improved fire bylaws and more systematic ornamentation of their open spaces.

The President thought Mr. Gouinlock misapprehended the object of the Guild. That body had no more to do with Toronto than the Young Liberal or Young Conservative Clubs, as it held its meetings merely for social objects. He thought, with the Registrar, that action by the Association as a whole would have more weight. He could see no reason why there should not be a committee having sections in different cities. There was no need of frequent meetings, as action could be had as a result of correspondence.

At the suggestion of the President, after a little further discussion, the following committees were appointed on motion of the Registrar, seconded by Mr. Townsend, to prepare resolutions and report to the Association to-morrow:

On the fire by-law: Messrs. Tully, Gordon and Burke.

On the city ornamentation Messrs. Billings, Baxter, D. B. Dick, W. R. Gregg, A. A. Post and W. B. Aylsworth.

Mr. A. H. Gregg called attention to the apparently decreasing popularity of the examinations of the Association, there being only 13 students who presented themselves at those held last

year. He thought all would admit that the examinations were one of the chief bulwarks of the Association, as they fixed the standard they were attempting to raise. He thought that some tangible recognition in the shape of a diploma given to those who had already passed the examinations, as well as to those who might be successful in passing them in the future, would be an Incentive to students to come up to them, and therefore would move, "That diplomas be granted to all students who have passed the final examinations up to the present time, and also to those passing them in the future."

Mr. Baxter seconded the motion.

The Registrar said he had some time ago received a letter in regard to this matter from the mover of the resolution, and it had been spoken of at the Council meeting in the morning, the only question being as to the expense of getting up a diploma of such artistic merit as would be creditable to the Association. He himself thought the idea a good one.

Mr. Billings, referring to the objection of the expense, said that in the civil service men had to pay $7 for their commission, and similarly, a charge might be made for the proposed diploma.

The President asked in the event of non-payment of fees or for other sufficient cause, the diploma, if given, could be withdrawn?

To this there seemed to be a general dissent.

Mr. Wickson thought it a feasible plan to make a charge for the diploma as suggested. He had been surprised to learn that in the medical profession, in certain hospitals at St. Louis, even when medals were earned, they were not given out until a certain amount was paid for them.

Mr. Gordon threw out the idea that one item of the expense be reduced by holding a competition among the members for a suitable design, which would leave only the mechanical part of the work to be paid for.

The motion was then carried.

Mr. Aylsworth said there was a matter rising out of the minutes regarding which he wished to speak. It appeared from the Librarian's report that, while the annual expense of his department continues as usual, the number of books called for had so declined that each loan cost the Association something over a dollar, besides the fist cost of books, &c.

Could we afford to be so generous to the few members or students who seemed to appreciate or desire the books?

At a former meeting he had questioned the wisdom of founding a library which must remain so weak and unattractive, and that view had now been confirmed. There is a much more valuable collection of architectural works in the Toronto Public Library, free to all. The library of the Provincial Parliament contains a number also easily accessible, and the School of Practical Science has here a magnificent collection, not only of books, but photographs and plates of everything worthy of study. This collection is growing and is freely offered for our use and benefit. Would it not then be a graceful act to offer the donation of our small library to be added to that of the School?

Mr. Paull depreciated the tendency to despise the day of small things, and could not believe that Mr. Aylsworth was serious in his proposition. Speaking for himself, he would rather give a subscription for the purpose of increasing the efficiency of the library.

Mr. Aylsworth assured the last speaker that he was quite sincere in what he had proposed. It did not seem feasible to maintain a library that would be serviceable to an Association whose members were scattered all over the province. Then again there were so many libraries started in the city that not one of them was what it might be. He would like to see all the books on architecture now scattered in the various libraries brought together where they would be more accessible and consequently more made use of.

Mr. Helliwell seconded Mr. Aylsworth's motion, expressing his concurrence in the views of that gentleman regarding the desirability of concentrating the works on architecture now scattered in different libraries in some one place at which members of the Association might avail themselves of them for reference, and could also have the privilege of taking them out if necessary.

The Registrar reminded the members that as the Association held examinations, it ought to have a library that at least embraced all the text books necessary to the examinations. The lack of these books had been made an excuse for not coming up for the examinations.

Mr. Paull stated that he had learned from the chief librarian that the medical books in the reference department of the public library had been handed over to the medical profession and he thought proper action and representations would result in similar action by the architectural works being handed over to the custody of the librarian of the Association.

Mr. A. H. Gregg thought the committee should consider the desirability of enhancing the utility of the library rather than wiping it out of existence.

The President said he understood Mr. Aylsworth's motion to be that the committee should consider the propriety of doing away with the library.

Mr. Aylswortb said his motion was that the committee should take into consideration the subject of the library, and bring in a resolution to deal with it one way or the other.

The motion was then carried and the President nominated

