 <doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="The Weathering of Building Stone" author="">THE WEATHERING OF BUILDING STONE.*

The slow decay of everything exposed to the weather has become a pro.

verb, and from the earliest times men have moralized on the gnawing tooth of time," as though time were some relentless monster devouring slowly man and all his products, but of late years geologists have begun to make some Enquirer as to the monster, and to find out somewhat exactly what times gnawing tooth really is. The question is one of great importance to the student of geology, for the weathering and wearing away of the solid rock and the building up of its materials in new places are among the most significant factors in the ceaseless round of change by which mountains and valleys and plains are carved and re-modeled on the earth's surface of the geologist no structure is permanent, the everlasting hills do not Last forever , in fact the destructive forces are most actively at work where the mountain lifts its head so boldly, as if to defy the elements.

The tooth of time," when examined a little carefully, turns out, as so many bugbears do, to consist of very simple and innocent elements Air, water, change of temperature, these three factors alone or in combination, with traces of a few common acids, are the effective forces in the weathering of the rocks of the geologist and of the Stone of the architect. The effects produced by these agencies may be purely mechanical, or purely chemical. or more often a mixture of both.

In climates like our own, where the extremes of heat and cold may run from 1000 in summer to 15 or 20 below zero in winter, the effect of mere change of temperature may be important in its disintegrating action on building stone The rise of temperature, when sunshine falls upon the wall of a building, is imparted to the outer layers of particles of the blocks of building some and expands them, granite having been found to expand .000004825 inch per foot for each degree Fahrenheit, marble .00000;668 sandstone .000009532

Since stone is a poor conductor of heat the surface will expand more rapidly than the interior, and there will be a tendency to form minute cracks and to chip off the surface of the stone. It is said that the south side of stone buildings exposed to great changes by the coming and going of sunshine begins to roughen and disintegrate sooner than the north side in New York and other American cities The ill effects of change of temperature will, of course, be more apparent in the case of stone like granite, made up of minerals differing in their rate of expansion by heat. This is most strikingly shown in case of fire, when granite, though stronger and more compact than sandstone or limestone under Ordinary circumstances, crumbles far more easily in the intense heat.

Another injurious effect of change of temperature is to be found in the loosening of the Joints between the blocks of stone in a budding. Supposing the stone to have been laid in summer, all the blocks will occupy less space in the cold of winter, and minute fissures will tend to form in the cement or between it and the stone. These fissures admit water and make the starting point for other changes.

Change of temperature alone is, however, not a rapid agent in disintegration. It is the presence of water that gives it efficiency as a destroyer in climates like ours in winter where freezing and thawing occur in rapid succession. When water freezes it expands with an almost irresistible force, which has been estimated at 138 tons per square foot at 20 below freezing, and is quite sufficient to rend the strongest rock. All the tiny fissures and crevices of a block of building stone exposed to rain or melting snow become filled with water, which may afterwards freeze, wedging off fragments. Another thaw followed by another frost pushes the parts still farther asunder until the stone splits and crumbles. Stone buildings of many kinds illustrate this action on the sides exposed to storms. It is very well seen on many New York brown stone houses, where the porous Connecticut sandstone has been sawn and set on its edge, and after a few years scales so as to be quite unsightly.

The action of frost depends very largely on the porosity of any stone exposed to its influence. A compact massive stone like granite or many lime-stones is little affected, while porous limestone's, and especially sandstone's, are very quickly injured in exposed positions. In this respect the capacity of a stone to absorb water is of great importance, and one may say with Sterry Hum that, other things being equal, the value of a stone for building purposes is inversely as us porosity or absorbing power " <person>N. H. Winchell </person>gives in a report of the Geological and Natural History of Michigan (Vol. 1. p. 197, etc.), a table showing that massive crystalline stones, like granites, syenites and gabbros, absorb very little water, generally much less than one per cent,, dolomires absorb a little more, and dolomite limestone's still more, up to 3 or 4 per cent. Limestone's absorb rather less, while sandstone's absorb very much more the lowest amount in his table being three per cent , and the highest 12.60 per cent Sterry Hunt found that Postern sandstone's Iron Canada absorbed from o 50 to 3 ~6 per cent. Medina sandstone's from Canada 3 31 to 404 per cent., and subcarboriferous  sandstone from Ohio 9 to 10.22 per cent Silurian limestone's and dolomites from Canada examined by him absorbed from o II to 555, while Tertiary limestone's from Caen, France, absorbed from 15 to 16.05 percent. of moisture

As a general rule a stone absorbing 10 per cent, of water crumbles rapidly in our winters, and should not be employed where carving or a fine finish of any kind is exposed to the weather.

Thus far the purely mechanical side of weathering has been discussed. let us now turn to the chemical side. The air consists of about four parts of nitrogen and one of oxygen, with varying amounts of watery vapor, a little carbonic acid and traces of ammonia and other nitrogen compounds In cities it may also carry soot and traces of some common chemical compounds, such as sulfur dioxide, sulphurous and sulfuric acids, hydrochloric acid, nitrous and nitric acids.

Rain water is more or less strongly charged with oxygen, carbonic acid and other substances found in the air, The nitrogen of the air is Inert and the oxygen and other substances are active only in the presence of water, so that very dry air has little or no effect in weathering, In very dry climates  like that of Egypt monuments of stone may be ground oft by driving desert sand acting as a sand blast, hut are scarcely affected in other respects after 4000 or 6000 years exposure to the weather. How differently a damp climate affects the same stone may be seen only too well to the Egyptian obelisks transported to London, Paris and New York It is well known that in the last city the granite scaled so rapidly that the obelisk had to be coated with paraffin to preserve it at all.

The action of oxygen as a weathering agent is important in respect to a few minerals only. Certain sulfides. especially the brassy yellow mineral iron pyrites, are changed by oxygen in the presence of moisture into sulfates and finally into oxides. Granites, marbles and other crystalline rocks containing these minerals, may be weakened by their weathering out, and are stained an ugly brown by the hydrous oxide formed, so as to be quite disfigured. This change is less important in the sandstone's, though even then the change of colors may be disagreeable Many stones used in the Parliament Buildings at Ottawa illustrate this. the dark brown smear having sometimes run down on to the blocks below Stones rich inmagnetite. such as diabase, sometimes used as black granite may be acted on in a different



"Paper by <person>Prof. Coleman</person>, School of Practical Science, Toronto, read at the fifth annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects.

way. The mineral magnetite consists of the sesquioxide of iron combined with the monoxide. '1 he latter portion may weather into hydrous sesquioxide, giving brown stains, and sometimes causing the rock to crumble. A similar effect, though less important, has been observed in some massive rocks containing large amounts of silicates rich in iron, horn blendeoraugite.

Water charged with caibonic acid is a very efficient weathering agent, and has some action on most minerals, except quartz, In the granite at the Thousand Islands large blocks of quartzite are sometimes found, and as a rule the quartzite projects she apply an inch or so above the granite, showing the amount of weathering and degradation since the time some thousands of years ago when all was planed smooth by glaciers.

In the case of granite and other massive crystalline rocks this weathering consists in the change of the felspar into clayey substances and of the mica and hornblende into impure clay, oxides of iron, etc. The quartz grains are loosened in this way and are washed oft by rain action, leaving fresh surfaces exposed Without the help of frost it is probable that this variety of weathering would go on very slowly. Granite monuments in our cemeteries seem but little affected even after standing a number of years, though they gradually lose their polish and grow rough.

Limestone's are more easily attacked. If pure they are slowly dissolved, but keep a tolerably smooth surface If impure, as they generally are, the particles of sand and clay are insoluble and form a crust on the surface. With this the soot of city atmospheres combines of change the original color into a dingy black. Limestone's with large fossils soon become unsightly on dressed surfaces from the projection of the fossils Marbles or crystalline limestone's are very readily acted on A study of marble tombstones in our cemeteries shows that even a few years exposure removes the polish, except on parts that are protected. Every marble slab which I have examined, bearing a date of twenty years or more ago has completely lost its polish on all exposed parts, has turned Grey in color and is so friable that one can easily rub off particles with the finger. It is quite evident that marble is entirely unsuited for outdoor use in the climate of Toronto.

Sandstone's differ greatly among themselves in their liability to weather, hard quartzite ones being almost unattacked, while porous, loose textured sandstones crumble sometimes very rapidly. These differences depend chiefly on the character and amount of the cement which holds the particles together. A clayey cement is the worst, since it readily absorbs moisture and is crumbled by the action of frost Such sandstone's are seductively easy to work, so that builders are tempted to use hem for carvings, but often the storms of a single winter will round the edges and spoil the sharpness of such carvings, particularly on exposed corners of buildings.

A calcareous or lime cement, though better than clay, is comparatively easily dissolved by rain water charged with carbonic acid, and still more easily by water containing traces of sulphurous or sulfuric acid, such as may frequently be found in the air of cities. Carbonate of iron is another, though rarer cement, which is easily soluble. The red anhydrous oxide of iron resists solution very well the brown hydrous is less resistant The most permanent cement of all is a siliceous one, which is practically unaffected by rain charged with any ordinary solvent , but unluckily such sandstone's are so hard to work and usually of such poor colors that builders rarely employ them

A rather fine grained Grey sandstone frequently used in our cemeteries, has turned darker Grey, but resists weathering often admirably Horizontal slabs fifty years old are not at all friable and still retain their inscriptions, though somewhat encrusted with dirt and lichens. A yellowish sandstone has not stood as well, and after thirty-five years in one instance has weathered so as to be quite illegible.

The presence of clay spots in sandstone's is most injurious to the appearance, since they weather Out and leave ugly holes, sometimes not standing even a single winter. The filling of the holes with powdered sandstone and shellac renders the stone presentable, but Only for a short time. Still worse is the presence of clayey layers between the iaminae either of sand. stone or limestone The clay rapidly weathers out, spoiling the dressed face of the stone and in time weakening the whole wall.

The hardening of certain limestone's and sandstone's after quarrying is an interesting effect of the action of the air, though not properly included under weathering. It appears to he due to the drying out of the quarry water with which the stone was soaked. As it dry out, all the substances which it held in solution. such as lime and silica, are deposited, hardening the surface of the block If once this hardened skin is removed. however, no amount of wetting with pure water will renew it.

Thus far we have considered the action of the weather in decomposing and dissolving part or all of the constituents of a building stone, injuring its strength and durability but there is another action of some importance to the architect as an artist, that is the slow change at color which most varieties of stone undergo after taking their place in a budding. This may be called the mellowing touch of time as contrasted with his gnawing tooth, and from the artistic side an architects work, like a rich wine, may ripen and improve with years

Most of these color changes are the result of slow oxidation. Same dark Grey or bluish limestone's, like those of Kingston, contain bituminous matter from the multitude of fossil organisms that died to form these beds of rock. This color is slowly lost by oxidation and the surface of the stone gradually reaches the true color of the limestone, a pale Grey, sometimes even suggesting marble As a general rule stitch changes of color are due to oxidation of iron compounds from the monoxide, which is green or black as a rule, to the sesquioxide. which is yellow or brown or red The general effect then is to change the color from cool greenish Grey's to warmer yellows or browns. An old marble statue, cold white in the beginning, becomes yellowed like old story with the lapse of time but this change may be due partly to the action of dust and soot in cities. Many whitish or Grey lime. stones yellow in a somewhat similar. Grey or greenish sandstone's generally take on a yellow or brown tone in time, In many cases this change of color is a distinct improvement, especially where stones of different colors which do not quite harmonize have been used together.

Of course in cities burning much soft coal, color is of no importance, since all colors are presently shrouded in an impartial pall of sooty Grey or dirty black.

In towns burning mostly hard coal, like our own Toronto, with its usually clear skies and clean atmosphere, the color scheme and the changes which time will give rise to should be carefully considered, more so than they are at present.

In choosing a building stone which has not been thoroughly tested by use one may very easily make mistakes The color, the texture, the power to resist crushing strain, as the stone comes from the quarry, may all be greatly modified by weathering The amount of moisture which the stone will absorb, the chemical constitution and the mineral composition, as shown under the microscope, all afford data by which to judge of its lasting qualities; but perhaps the best test of all is to examine the neighborhood of the quarry and see what effect weathering has had upon loose blocks or exposed ledges of similar stone. In any case architects in choosing stone for buildings intended to be of a lasting and monumental character, should take every means possible to determine the durability of the material they are working with.

