<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



In discussing the personal errors in cement testing, <person>Clifford RICHARDSON </person>Ass. Am. Soc. C. E , gives the results of the following tests made under his supervision. A batch of cement mortar (2 to 1) sufficient to make 45 briquettes was mixed by one individual and divided into three equal portions. The mortar was then handed over to three persons (1/3 to each) to be placed into the moulds. Observer A was unskilled in making briquettes observer B had considerable experience, but no extended practice but endeavored to follow C, who has been engaged for years in making briquettes. A filled his I5 moulds and had mortar left, B crowded his into 14 moulds, while C Jtist filled 15 The briquettes were treated exactly alike by the same dividual after the gauging with the following results.



The above diagram gives the averages of 40 briquettes of Star (Deseronto) Portland, gauged with 25 and 30 per cent. of water. This sample was very fast setting so that the amount of waler used is larger than in the two preceding cases.

	 Sieve.			Residue

	No. too.		.	   61

	No. 80	.	.	2.55

	No. 50	.	1.225

The above diagram gives the averages of 8o briquettes of White's Portland gauged with 15.3— 23.7 — 27.8 and 33.3 per

cent. of water.

From all of these diagrams it is readily seen that the amount of water used has a very marked effect upon the tensile strength at the end of seven days, and that this difference gradually becomes less in time as far as the experiments are carried.

In making briquettes of neat cement not more than 1 or 2 should be attempted at once, for the water and cement must be thoroughly incorporated, and yet placed in the mould before any initial setting takes place.

From a paper prepared by <person>G. F. Deacon </person>for the British Inst.

C.	E., we get the following

That the style of the grip used in breaking the briquettes has a very decided effect is well established by the following table, taken from the report of a sub-committee of the commission of French government engineers. The increase in tensile strength due to the rubber cushioning will also be noted:

TABLE SHOWING COMPARATIVE REGULARITY AND STRENGTH OF Fracture OF NEAT CEMENT BRIQUETTES BROKEN WITH JAWS OF GRIPS

Unprotected AND CUSHIONED WITH RUBBER

The following table gives the losses in per cent. DUE to the retempering of cement and is the average of a large number of tests

The conclusion of the committee was that they consider the use of rubber cushioning tends to regulate the position of the fracture and the ultimate strength.



Similar tests by American engineers might be quoted, but this is not necessary. Mr. <person>J. Gartland </person>found from a large range of tests that where only 50 per cent. of the briquettes broke across the least cross section with the unprotected grip, 90broke across the least section while using rubber cushioning with the grip designed by Mr. W. R. Cook, representative of Messrs. <firm>Rieble Bros. </firm>This is the form of grip used in the School of Science.



In this connection might be mentioned a series of tests in the school laboratory on the effect of cushioning. 50 briquettes were broken in sets of five, and in each case the cushioning was

