<doctype type="text">THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="A Chapter from my Notebook: Building Methods in Rome" author="Aylsworth, N.B.">A CHAPTER FROM MV NOTE BOOK —BUILDING

METHODS IN ROME. *



BY <person>N. B. AYLSWORTH</person>



This audience being composed of architects, the object of these cursory notes shall not be to treat of architectural styles, their origin, development or peculiarities, that subject having become threadbare Familiarity may not necessarily have bred contempt in the minds of all, or any, but too much devotion to such study may have wrought sonic evil, which might here he hinted at.

Ancient architects designed the grandest and most beautiful of buildings, fitted iii all parts for their intended purpose, using the best materials to he obtained and suited to the climate and other local conditions, without thinking of, or publishing the name or style of order. Classification has been the work of later students, many of whom have noted the peculiar or pleasing forms, while missing altogether the spirit of the designer.

Through superficial study of such classification the laity have become familiar with the names thus applied, and this little knowledge has endangered and retarded the development of true architecture from the Renaissance until now. The modern architect, expecting to be asked to name the style of his design and not having the boldness to say lie disregarded ancient styles roust adopt one of there, a probably disfigure the building by the incongruous or needless use of certain features, or their imitation in perishable material.

Without this supposed necessity out (JI modern requirements, resources and limitations might be evolved suitable, durable and pleasing buildings of a style that in succeeding ages might also be dignified by an appropriate name As it is, how may this age expect to be known or described, when in turn it shall be referred to as ancient ? Will there he any remains of it 2 000 years hence?

Building methods, though always affecting the development of true style, have not always been so fully described 'is the finished form, and some of these methods, observed during a is it to the Eternal City," will how he referred to.

During the early ages, known as the tune of the kings, the building materials seem to have been wood and the volcanic rock of the neighborhood, called Tufa Of the former nothing has survived, though Egyptian wood  much older is plentiful. Of stone structures without mortar, there are portions of the walls of Romans, the Manierrinie prison, cloaca maxima, arid other remains.

In later periods, probably through expeditions from the east, the properties of clay and cements became known. There are now, and have her for ages, extensive brick yards in the suburbs of the city, mostly the property of his Holiness the Pope. There is also in the vicinity a reddish clay called Pozzolani which mixed with common lime mortar makes it hydraulic and strong. the great strength of this mortar, after use in brickwork, further led to the use of concrete, omit of which grew the peculiar Roman methods of walling and vaulting still in use. This seas their own, and only invention, ,but was one of very great importance 

The Romans became a conquering nation, and amongst tire spoils of war great numbers of beautiful columns arid sculptures in the rich marbles, porphyry, alabaster, &c. , severe brought to Rome, with architects, sculptors and artisans as slaves to set it up. Through the rise of these, applied to their rude buildings, arose tire Roman style of applyrig architectural forms having no relation whatever to the construction of the building. From the interior use of these columns came the basilica, and finally the cathedral. The earliest done covers the lower dungeon of the Maniertime prison. This is not a true arched vault, but is front by' the rapidly- overselling stone courses of the sides, until they meet to form the floor above. I this dungeon St. Peter caused water to spring out of the solid rock, so he might baptize his jailer. The spring is still flowing, whether St. Peter was ever in Rome or not. Tire cloaca maxima is prolcalily of later construction, and is a circular tunnel of true arched sic criework. All later vaulting is either of brick rims oh edge and keyed, or brick simply bedded flat in cement, or they are formed entirely' of concrete, in which gravel, broken stone or brick and even lumps of clay are used. Over church naves and similar structures, the form is semi-circular but over ordinary' rooms is elliptical, often very' flat and thin, wasting no height. Tire haunches are always leveled rip at the same time and when all has set with the walls, it is like a solid stone. That grandest of domes the Pantheon, is irrerehy the largest example of what was, and still is, it one form or other, the erosion ceiling of all ordinary rooms. It is a solid mass of concrete, tapering from a great thickness at the springing, to a comparatively thin shell at the top, and contrary to the general rule as domes are built, is flatter outside than inside. The walls of the building therefore, 20 ft. thick and also of concrete, have to sustain toward thrust, though the span is t43 feet. These walls appear as if of well laid brickwork an unusual sight in Rome, limit this is irrerely for the most part a facing of brick, laid or built op along with and to retain the concrete until set. To form the better bond with the concrete, the inner brick are wedge shaped. This brick face was again covered with stucco and marble veneer, and finished with marble pilasters cornices, balustrade arid statuary, now all removed though the massive stone portico remains with its granite columns 40 feet high. Tire outside of thc dorm was covered with gilded tile, carried away some 200 years ago and sometime more replaced by lead. The inside with its deeply conferred soft, was enriched with heavy bronze plating, renounced and recast, first into cannon and afterwards into tine canopy, 90 feet high, over the high altar in St. Peters'. This great building has but one entrance and no windows yet is flooded with light from the, circular opening in the center of tile top, 30 feet in diameter, though appearing from below not uric there of that. Story and sunshine falling titrcurrghr for 59 centuries, have wrought no more damage than would a single year iii our climate and buildings.

Rome has no brought passed through many building booms and is still disfigured by marry evidences of the last one, sonic years ago. Dozens, if riot hundreds of large buildings, 4 to 7 stories high were erected, many of there still unfinished, though trot perishing as they would here. These commute a great many rooms, usually surrounding a square central



diaper read are the fifth annual convention of the Ocirarlo Association of Architects.

court, and in the ease of chapels, have arcade galleries from which tire several lower stories are entered. The court is not roofed over but is nicely passed and opposite the main entrance has always a fountain cascade or grotto, with more or less seullntumre arid foliage about it, and the water flowing perpetually. The ground floor rounds opening to In street, which may' lie very wide or as narrow as 4 feet are rented for stores, workshops, tenements, stables, &e., the upper portions as hotels, flats, & c., amid every in palaces, the second story is generally rented as tenements the palace proper with its higher ceilings and oragnificent roumuis, beginning with the third story'.

In Italy no building operations have ever beers carried on except by the state, the church or the noliihity—the great unwashed being retainers or meriauius, paying rent cur not. The liresent nation is composed of a great many former principalities duchies &c., each with its royal family and when united, sonic 25 years ago, from one of these was selected an hereditary king. In all these eases the title descends tic all members of the family' at their birth. hence the frequent mention of drenches and palaces. The only other buildings are monasteries tombs arid theatres—churches and chapels being nearly' always an adjunct to more palace  monastery

These buildings which might be residence, museum store cur factory', are fireproof, and should be inexpensive, being constructed entirely of the commonest brickwork, with all ceilings flat vaulted in brick or concrete, tire haunches leveled rip to from floors of circuit, tile, marble or mosaic The mosaic floors many museums arid palaces of to day have being removed from the more ancient homes of time Caesars and with their rich and everlasting colors blending like brushwork, no more beautiful or durable flooring can be irrigated.

Balconies, theatre galleries, &c., are formedby very flat and thin arches of rudest bricks, or of concrete, springing front light iron beam, projecting or supported. Pilasters, pedestals, brackets, cornices,

are also roughly formed in brickwork, the whole afterwards to be competed in structure addling also to their strength. After the raise brick work lines stood for a year or inure to settle arid season, nuray be for centuries time frames are set inn openings and tine finishing commenced These frames may be of pine or of marble, and rumay' cave' iniarhihe or stucco architrave brush, oftener plastered jambs without casing, arid never is any' should be used for casings cur base floors, partitions or stairs. The effect of lines of moldings for casings, case and room cornices, in common buildings sell be produced later by shading in distemper, as part of tine decoration 

Though the roughest of pine is used for doors, sash and blinds, their joiner work is excellent. Inside and outside shutters are used, and casement sash in all cases. All are heavy, fit perfectly', arid time hardware is mine best and most durable description Doors ucf very great age many lie seen, of cedar arid walnut still in t lie raw state, with panels, 2 feet wide amid without sign c-if shrinkage. They' are riot exposed Inc furnace heat, they' are in a dry climate and uniform temperature. Large doors or gates entering the court arc trade in pairs, very heavy', and are thickly studded with large pyramidal headed wrought iron nails. Such doors always stand open during the day. Just at this door or passage is the office of the porter, a person always in demand and indispensable to the stranger. In all royal palaces he is a most imposing and gorgeous flunkey', selected for his great stature, good looks and stock of ready' information. He in robed in scarlet with gold lace and cocked hat, yet accepts a tip of half a lire in ten cents odor thankfully time a would be taken here.

Church doors are nearly' alssay's open but are provided seith a heavy padded leather hanging, to shunt unit street sounds and avoid the constant hanging. A lower cornier of this will hue lifted aside by dinner of tine beggars always at hand, who will very gratefully accept the smallest scupper coin. Visitors walk about freely' inspecting every part of the interior, while mass many lie going on at any number of the altars, or they many be conducted by an entertaining sacristan, priest or monk to the more sacred or interesting places and objects tip from 10 cents to a dollar.

The exterior of buildings, generally will receive a finish of stucco, gray or colored, or of marble or a combination of both, forming pilasters largest, lalcomries, cornices &c., to represent emit stone. Iii Rome the object is not to deceive, limit if you were it would lie most thoroughly accomplished Inn that climate everything is durable. The traveler going front Parts tic Ronnie would suppose the hatter to be built of stone. which grin rig from Rome to Paris he would suspect the use of student, and would lie mistaken in both instances. The new "Banco Romano" however directly in front of my hotel, was hieing built of stone as if in Paris, The building wins quite sound even if the seas rotten Indeed tins street, ''Via National," has been engineered on Napoleon ruler It is a new street in an air line from tine modern railway station Just inside the walls, direct to the ancient heart of the city, cutting down hills, leveling up valley's, hiding ancient ruins and slicing off palaces, gardens, &c., doing much inure damage in the opinion of tire antiquary tiranienun he mcuauhe up fuir by the magnificence of this nionlemni innovation.

Roofs are in nunanny eases heft flat, and finished in cement the same as floors, often supporting a considerable depth oh soil, with orange arid other trees, gardens. pavilions statuary, &c. Lead is used on domes and similar structures, hurt the almost universal roof covering, from the palace or basilica doesn't to the farm outbuilding on 4 poles, is the common pan rile, laid to about a quarter pitch. Such roofs have wood and iron framing and this is about the only timber used in buildings. In such cities fires are of very rare occurrence. Only inn a basilica could great damage be done, sell in ordinary buildings the roof might burn off without in the least distinrliing the inmates behoss'.

Cuuffered ceilings are to be found only in basilicas or other very large halls extending up to the roof, as when a court may' be roofed over. In such eases very heavy masses of enriched wood structures moldings arc used, colored and gilded, and tine panels filled with fresco paintings. To see and sturdy these comfortably rumors are unsubscribe. All interiors are more or less enriched with rniorhehhcd stucco, gilding, glazed horcehain, mosaic, precocious marbles and real or imitation fresco. America all for must opportunity of enjoying the glorious effects of fresco. Our buildings have many windows hut scauity light. Roman buildings, such as chninrehies, art galleries, &c., have no windows as prominent features,

