<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to the forinet system be found advisable, as seems probable. Sir <person>John Hutton</person>, chairman of the Works Department, expresses the opinion that the workmen may not be disposed to (10 as good work for the Council as for a contractor. It will be remembered that not long ago the City Council of Toronto tried the same experiment, and with the same result. In both cases, the desire to curry favor with the trades unions seems to have been the actuating motive.





A RECENT and instructive experience with a steam heating plant is reported in connection with one of the Toronto public school buildings. Last summer the Bolton avenue school, a two-storey building, was enlarged to contain sixteen class rooms, instead of twelve. This was done by adding a third storey, making an increase of fifty per cent. in the space to be heated. The apparatus formerly consisted of one boiler and plain coils of steam pipes—the usual pressure of steam running at six to eight pounds gauge and all worked well. For the new storey the old mains and returns were enlarged where necessary, and new extensions put in, with cast iron radiators. With the advent of cold weather it was found impossible to make the apparatus do its work, as the water backed out of the boiler into the returns before sufficient pressure could be obtained to make a circulation. Up to this time there had never been a check valve on the return connection with the boiler, and Mr. Bishop, Superintendent of Buildings and architect for the School Board, was of the opinion that to provide one would overcome the difficulty. The contractor for alterations to the plant and others having extended experience with steam apparatus differed from him, thinking this would have no appreciable effect and that another boiler of the same capacity as the one in use would be found necessary. The check valve was put in at a cost of about twenty-five dollars, and the system worked as perfectly as ever, satisfactorily warming  the whole building even during the extremely cold weather which prevailed at times during the past winter. The amount of fuel consumed is about fifteen pet cent. more than formerly, with a corresponding increase in the steam pressure required. An additional boiler would have cost nearly one thousand dollars, with an annual cost of at least one hundred dollars more than the present arrangement, In the building referred to there are 268,000 cubic feet of space with 2,200 sq. feet of window glass. The heating is entirely by direct radiation and the boiler heating surface is one-tenth the radiating surface, a proportion allowed for ordinary buildings by Baldwin, the eminent authority on steam heating. These facts show a rather wide difference of opinion among people who ought to know the requirements, and that the subject of apparatus for heating or ventilating is one with which architects should be thoroughly familiar.



<article title="Building Construction in its Relation to Fire Protection" author="">BUILDING CONSTRUCTION IN ITS RELATION TO

FIRE PROTECTION.



THE large fire which caused such destruction to buildings in one of the principal parts of Toronto last month, made reasonably clear that the series of conflagrations by which Toronto has been visited of late were due to incendiarism. It can hardly be conceived in the light of the immunity which the city enjoyed for so many years, that three such conflagrations should take place within so short a period from accidental causes. It has been the subject of comment that in each instance the fires originated in buildings situated in the very heart of the business district of the city, where there was a reasonable certainty of their being rebuilt. It is to be hoped that the reward of $1 000 offered by the Underwriters' Association for the conviction of the incendiaries will have the desired result.

The rapid destruction of Mr. <person>Robert Simpson </person>new departmental store building, an illustration of which appeared in the January number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and which was among the first of the buildings erected on the modern iron construction principle, not only demonstrated the insufficiency of the city's fire equipment. but what is more important, the fact, that so long as the prevailing methods of building are allowed to continue, the most effective fire extinguishing appliances will be of little avail in preventing the spread of fire when once it shall have obtained hold upon a building. If a merchant wants a building put up with the greatest amount of floor space and with street fronts almost entirely of plate glass, his architect may advise him of the danger to which

it will be exposed from fire, and that it will also be a menace to the safety of surrounding buildings, but if the proprietor refuse to go to the expense of making the building fire-proof and be willing to assume the risk of having it destroyed, the architect can do no other than carry out his wishes. It is here that the law should step in and prevent the erection of structures of such a character. Since the recent fire, a clause has been discovered in the existing building by-law of the city, limiting the floor areas of buildings and providing other safeguards against fire. Strange to say, this clause has been more honored in the breach than in the observance. It reads as follows

No block of warehouses or storehouses or other buildings (except churches, public halls and opera houses) shall contain tam mere than forty squares of building on the  ground floor thereof eof, including internal and external and half the party waits belonging  t hereto, unless such building be separated aid divided party walls into divisions of net illume than forty squares of building as aforesaid, unless the permission of the City Council shall lie first obtained. No block of warehouse or other buildings communicate with any oilier block of warehouses or other buildings though a party wall. nor shall any stable communicate a with any other stable through a party watt, unless the door case aid sill of every such communication be of stone or wood covered with tin, and utilities there be to every stub communication a

door of two thickness	of wood covered on both skies with tin. No lumber bonus or

Lintel shall be laid into the back		work of ability is all in any such building nearer than

eighteen inches to tile opening of such communication unless tile door case and still of cry communication lie of stone or of wood cased with it.

The committee, distinctions of Messrs. <person>H. B. Gordon</person>, <person>W. L. Symons</person>, <person>W. R. Gregg, </person><person>Edmund Burke</person>, <person>D. B. Dick, </person><person>B. Jarvis</person>,

<person>J. A. Pearson, </person><person>Mark Hall</person>, <person>E. J. Lennox </person>and <person>George Miller</person>, appointed by the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>to recommend to the City Council needed amendments to the city building bylaw', have lost no time in dealing with the subject. Since their appointment the committee have held eight meetings, at which the building ordinances of London, Eng., New York, Chicago, St. Louis and a number of other cities, have been carefully considered, together with other data bearing on the subject in hand. As the result of their deliberations the committee have framed a by-law which will be recommended to the City Council at an early date. In view, however, of the unusual circumstances at present prevailing in the city, and the urgent necessity for immediate legislation to prevent the erection of buildings constructed in a manner similar to those recently destroyed, the committee have recommended that the following provisions be at once incorporated into the existing by-law

Fire-Proof Buildings- Every building hereafter erected, which belongs to the public class or the hotel class, the highest occupied floor of which exceeds 50 feet in height from the average ground tune; and every building hereafter erected belonging to any oilier class, the highest occupied floor of which exceeds 70 feet in height fit it the average ground hue, shall be built fire-proof; that is to say

it shall lie construed with walls of brick, stone or terra-cotta, or other hard, incombustible materials. No wooden beams, tintels, bond timber or wood strips shall be built in nails.

The floors and roof shall be constructed of brick or terra-cotta arches or oilier hard, incombustible material, and the supporting beams shall lie of steel or iron, alt property cased with not, -combustible material.

The stairs aid staircase landings shall be built if hard, incombustible materials.

No a woodwork or oilier inflammable material shall be used, excepting the flour hoartix, lie doors and windows unit their frames, and the trims, casings and interior finish is when fill it solid at the hack with fire-proof  material. The exposed parts' ii alt constructional steel and in it work, supporting waits, floors, roof or stairs, shall be efficiently protected with at east 2 inches of porous terra-cotta; or, where such is that feasible with wire tails and plastering of sufficient thickness

No existing non-fire-proof building shall be converted in the plurpoxes of a building of the politic building or hotel classes, the highest occupied floor of which exceeds 50 feet from the average ground hue, anti no existing non-fireproof building shall be increased in height to exceed the limits set forth in is section for new buildings of the sloan class

But building in this section shall prevent the erection of what line known an grain elevators as constructed pros kind they are erected on the water front in isolated localities, and under such conditions as the superior of Buildings may deem prudent

Elevators-- Where elevators tire enclosed in shafts, at the inclosing walls must lie built of brick or terra-cotta or oilier incombustible material

In lilt buildings of the manufactory class that are more than 2 stories iii height above basement and its alt buildings of the store and warehouse class that are more than stories in height above basement the elevators must be enclosed in shafts built of brick or terra-cotta, and extending at least feet above roof; amid covered with a light glass sky tight or easily broken covering and all the doom stays opening into such shafts shall lie closed by iron doors, or else lie doors of two thickness of solid boards covered till over with asbestos and sheet metal

Where elevator shafts cannot coils intently ruin in top story and from influence out to root; glue top of shaft must hue covered and a fire-proof ceiling.

where elevator, are open, the guide posts and corner posts must lie of iron and any inclosing screens must be of incombustible material. Not work of any kind, other than sinus on cage guide post.., shall tie carried from floor iii floor.

Floor ARE,, —-No building hereafter erected (except public auto rooms) shall have on any floor thereof more than 4,000 square feet of floor area undivided by  division walls. Nor shall the individual floor area of any floor iii any existing building (except public audience rooms) be increased so as to contain more than 4,000 square feet,

Division antis to divide time floor area of a building into spaces of not more than 4,000 squat e feet must be of stone, brick or terra-cotta.

