<doctype type=" text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Illustrations" author="">I LLUSTRATIONS.



PORTA DELL PALLIO.—SKETCH BY <person>EUSTACE G. BIRD</person>.



THIS gate built in I 520 A.D. is the west entrance to the city of Verona, in Northern Italy, and is an instance of San Micheli's wonderful ingenuity and taste in the mode of displaying pure and beautiful architecture with the requisites called for in fortifications. San Micheli devoted himself with great ardor to the practice of military architecture. The genius of this architect was of a very high order; his works are conspicuous for excellent construction as they are for convenience, unity, harmony, and simplicity, which threw into shade the minor abuses occasionally found in them—and our advice to the student would be to St Lidy his works with diligence.

	"STOKESAY	"-—THE GATEHOUSE.



Stokesay is an almost unique specimen of a mansion of the thirteenth century, fortified subsequently to the erection of the domestic portion of it. It combines in itself associations not only of the peaceful daily life of its inmates, but of that eventful time when this border land was the scene of forays and blood-

shed, and happily preserved with very little alteration through the chances and changes which have leveled so many other similar structures of that early date. It presents many features of curious interest for the architect, the archaeologist and historian , and the artist finds a gem of color and combination with a perfect setting.

The castle is situated on the left bank of the Onny, in the County of Shropshire, and within ten miles of the famous and better known stronghold of Ludlow. To the east rises a steep hill, on the summit of which can be traced the remains of a British camp

-—its sides clothed with firs; to the west a corresponding cliff, the lower slopes covered with hollies of great' age and the ridge of rugged limestone. This was the site selected for the home of one of those bids of the Marches, who in the time of the first Edward held this border land under the stern feudal rule, and who had frequently to repel

the figures of Adam and Eve, the serpent and the forbidden fruit. Two quaint figures surmount the pilasters—a man and a woman in dress of the fashion of the times—probably the founder and his wife while at each corner of the house are massive oaken corbels, the carving being very bold and masterly, each of the four being of a different design, the one I have shown being the most perfect. The timber work of the upper story has been much cut away for windows, but the blank plaster panels have not been filled with timber struts, but left purposely blank, either to be filled with ornamental plaster or as window spaces that were not required, and afterwards lath and plastered.

In the last century this gatehouse was often the resort of an outlaw who successfully eluded capture by secreting himself in a small room entered by a trap door, but there is nothing of special interest in the interior, as it has been much modernized and is now occupied by a caretaker.

A door of great size, made ball-proof by two layers of oak plank laid over each other at right angles and clamped with large headed iron nails, and pierced for firearms, remains as a relic of the civil wars. The hinges and other iron work appear

MR. <person>FRANK DARLING</person>,

President of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>.

the attacks of the as yet unconquered Welsh.

The first objects which arrest attention on first seeing the Castle are the gatehouse and the moat the latter surrounds the whole building and has a depth of about six feet and an average breadth of twenty-two feet. It is now used as a garden, and was once much deeper, being fed from a small stream coming down from the neighboring hills. The gatehouse, which has probably replaced the original drawbridge, is a fine example of a Tudor "black and white" building. Its timbers hoary with age, and stained by the rains of 300 years, have toned a silvery gray and are still in excellent preservation, and in many parts are richly carved, but in one or two instances have been cut away for new work of an order that is more useful than ornamental; and in cutting some of the main timbers, when the ugly chimney was erected to a more modern kitchen range, that side of the gatehouse has sunk, and the whole of the lower half was replastered upon the timbers which correspond with the other side. Over the ample archway which runs through the center are displayed on the arch beam "The Rose" in a shield with lion paws as supporters, and flanked with rude carving foliated in low relief. On the opposite side, corresponding, are

to earlier , and were probably taken from other parts of the castle.

Crossing the court-yard we have the heart-shaped tower, unique in itself; on the left a banqueting hall with its chased beams and windows of early English tracery; the priests' rooms and deep well in the North tower, having an overhanging half timber story over the moat. The solar is a splendidly paneled room with a grand fire place, and there are some good carved square pews in the church close by that reminds one of an elaborate horse-box.

From the date of Doomsday to 1241, with the exception of two intervals of forfeiture, the de Lacys held this and other manors. About 1115 the de Says were enfeoffed at Stoke by de Lacy—hence the name Stoke Say. Their ancestor, Picot de Sai, or Sez, a place in Normandy, fought at Hastings under William 1st. Five of the family are mentioned in connection with the manor. In 1240 the line of de Lacy died,

when it passed through a daughter to John de Verdon, who died in 1274 then to Lawrence de Ludlow, again to the Verdons, Mainwarings and Cravens. Sir <person>W. Croft </person>was slain here in 1645. It now belongs to <person>Dent Allcroft</person>, Esq., who lives near.

After the civil war, Stokesay was ordered to be "slighted," or rendered incapable of defense, but in this instance only the battlements of the northern tower were removed and the rest left intact. It was at one time used as outbuildings to the neighboring farm house. Lord Craven carried out necessary repairs for its preservation, and Mr. Allcroft at considerable expense has just put it into an excellent state of repair, but has allowed nothing to be removed or destroyed, and thus is handed down to us a relic of the past, little known by architects, except in the immediate counties, so I trust this slight description will prove of interest to our brethren across the pond.—<person>E. SWALES</person>.



RESIDENCE AT VANCOUVER, B. C., FOR CAPT. <person>R. ARCHIBALI</person>



—<person>R. MACKAY FRIPP </person>F R I B A, ARCHITECT.







Valuable stone quarries are reported to have been discovered at St. Raymond, Que.

