<doctype type="text">about 350,000, or double that of Toronto. Considerable of the area is at present without buildings showing above the surface, while on the campaign, outside the walls, and without the aid of the local improvement burmbug, speculative builders have ventured largely and lost all.

It is difficult to explain how the ground level has varied SO much at different periods, and how so much of art and architecture has been uncrated in recent times, hot there the facts arc apartment and explanations must be made to fit The pavement of the forum and "sacra via

are some 40 feet below tire level of tire streets surrounding the excavations. In many cases comparatively ancient buildings stand over others that form a sort of basement, and even others as sub-basement, In the grounds of the modern residence of a prominent photographer, one can descend through three stories of an ancient palace, and this portion of the city, until recently, had been for centuries a public common Vast stores of ancient art have, at various times, been dug up, arid no doubt many times more still remain buried, to recover which would necessitate the destruction of the present city. The work of excavation is for the present at an end, and so is this paper.



<article title="The Esthetic Unity of the Fine Arts: More Especially in Relation to Architecture" author="MacCarthy, Hamilton">THE ESTHETIC UNITY OF THE FINE ARTS—MORE ESPECIALLY IN RELATION TO ARCHITECTURE.*

By <person>Hamilton MACCARTHY</person>, R.C.A.



IT is only necessary to preface my remarks by saying that I address you

as an artist to artists, in the broadest and most catholic sense of the term

fellow-worshippers at the shrine of the beautiful in nature who feel their nearest ambition is to capture a ray of her glory, and crystallize it into some form of art, which may reflect its refining influence for the good and happiness of mankind and he an incentive to virtue and noble deeds!

In speaking of architecture it is riot merely in its constructive sense of building, but rite conception and creation of such edifices as claim to possess elements of grace arid beauty dignity and attractiveness, which should elevate the strut of the beholder and be a joy forever.

God created man in his own image—body,. soul and spirit-—and the first mental activities the primitive creature put forth were to build his rude habitation, carve ornaments on the door sills, color them with rude pigments, arid chant his dirge or war song. This imitative activity was the Genesis of the arts of design: painting, architecture and sculpture, together with poetry and music —making the five sister muses of form, proportion, color, melody and rhythm—the media try and through which the good and beautiful commune with the soul of man and satisfy his intellectual cravings. And are not these faculties intimately connected and associated with each other in their highest aesthetic fulfillment by some hidden mystery, not yet revealed—the principle underlying each being one and the same?

An apt figure of the five sister arts their intimate relationship and interdependence. suggests itself to the mind in the. structure and vocal organs of the human body

1st The skeleton—that wonderful mechanical arrangement upon which all other parts depend, combining, as it does, economy, lightness, strength and ingenuity, suggesting the building or architecture —Secondly The outer covering. i.e.. the muscles giving the contour of form

beauty and motion expressed in sculpture 3rdly. The color and texture of the features rind the skin, represented in

painting. —4thly and 5thly Speech and vocal sound the organs of poetry and music.

Here, then, is the perfect model set up by the Divine Architect, the synthesis of the fine arts, comprehending or embracing color, texture, form, harmony melody, rhythm and proportion—a living expression of the beautiful in mind and matter

In the language of the immoral bard :	What a piece of work is man 

—how noble in reason how infinite in faculties in form and moving how express and art admirable l in action how like air angel l In apprehension how like a god —the paragon of animals

Before leaving the masterpiece of creation, as the type or ideal model of beauty, examine for a moment Iris component parts: 'the osseous structure called the skeleton, marvel of economy and strength for the burden imposed upon it the cranium with ins dome and arching brow, exquisite precision of sutures that join the skull the vertebrae, ribs, pelvis. condoles of the limb bones, with their perfect ball-socket joints. Here is fitness and utility, though not necessarily beauty yet models for the builder and mechanical in this age of steel.

It is when we consider the mythology or muscles that life and beauty are apparent, and both architect and sculptor have been inspired with the perfection of form for their models. The design of the Greek and Roman mouldings is evidently inspired from tire profile of the face, mouth and chin ; the gently expanding and tapering columns from the limbs; the groaning of the ear, chiseling of nose and nostrils have also influenced design in architectural forms. In woman, though less powerful than man in structure the still more graceful curves of form present a veritable incarnation of unspeakable loveliness. Thus we see form in its highest type, which receives its consummation in its texture or outer covering the skin, the human epidermis. as seen on the cheek of beautiful woman combining and blending, as the painter learns every delicate and luscious with the bloom and down of touch-- a setting indeed for that incomparable jewel of all, the eye the soul's window. In color and texture added to form, we reach the absolute-- the highest aesthetic ideal of beauty. This trinity in unity of color, texture, form (form including proportion), constructs the essential and inseparable elements which tire master builder has incorporated and shows the relation and dependence of each upon the other, to express a perfect ensemble, each of the links being a sine qua non to the success of the whole ; and without which neither the sculptor, painter, architect nor poet, cart create his airy palaces or portray his themes of lore

Bulwer well appreciated this unity in the elements of the beautiful in Claude Melnottes description of the home to which he would think his mind could love fulfil its prayers A palace lifting to eternal summers; its marble walls from out a glossy however oft (molest foliage musical with birds, whose songs should syllable thy name * * while the perfumed lights stole through the mists of alabaster lamps and every air is heavy with the sighs of orange groves, and music from sweet lutes, until murmurs from low fountains that gush forth in the midst of roses

What is the principle in design that predominates in the human form and rims all through nature? It is a succession of curved lines of varying length entirely free from harshness producing to the senses a feeling of blending, melody buoyancy and harmony



Beauty's wave in human form,

In rose or lily, bird

In womanhood transcends alt things.

Twain always so, I've heard!

'Twas so in ancient days, when Art

Sat graceful on tier nature,

And gave her sons that curious tine,

True artists love to own.	—Extract.

The religion of the ancients required a hr habitation in which to worship their deities and their lares and penates and front the four walls of mud rind wood, or brick nor stone grew the temple Onirantenn, columns are capitals were adenine then the g utile broke the monrotonty of the horizontal. Color followed I lie beauty of texture was absent, till marble or an imitation tilled the want. Still life was is nut there—human life. At length the sculptors chin e and painter's brush filled the pediment with the deed of heroism, mirth in tied the walls with polychrome. Finally tire temple became a work of symmetry power and heavy every nicarher was St. midienl

with regard to optical value refinement carving	 gildogs anti tirimitig

drank in the glorious hues of there prism which shone refulgent upon its harmonious proportions.

The life of action and deed of valor were implanted there in the metopes and Irises. Time magnificent Quadriga arid Aertitenion statues adorned

the angles. Caryatidae took the place of columns	finally the temple be

came ehonired with the matchless genius of Phidias airri Apelles—fit habitation indeed for more crowning glory within the shrine of rite god Zetts or Athene it Chryselephantine Gold, ivory and precious stones what would Homner have said Ii, d lie seen these wonderful achieveusrents Art.

it was centuries before, tine sang of the god



"He said arid nodded with his shadowy brows

Was-ed on the imarornal head the ambrosial locks,

And all Olympus terrible nit his nod.'



Remember, it was trot tire intrinsic valtie of the material that made the masterpiece. Its value lay in its incomparable embodiment of begin beauty and sublime expression. The genius of Phidias appreciating the importance of aesthetic unity at once saw even marble failed beautiful as it was to futility tire highest ideal of texture as representing the flesh, and so chose ivory—which of all rinaterirmi hears the closest resemblance no the human epidermis. Write marble is beautiful when fresh from the chisel, limit without great care soils and loses its appearance till old age or time has turned it into the color of ivory like the Ventis the in her hallowed shrine in the Louvre, on the memorials it's of old-golml true stitch as are seen in Westminster Abbey, or the Elgiri marbles from the Perthanon and now in time British museum-- the latnem cut 438 B.C.

The true artist or dilletani who has drank the nectar from those gods if form and beauty Phidias Myron, Scopas, Polycleinus, Praxiteles, amid others of the age of tem tries cam only contemplate their works with wonder and fascination at the sniprennie mastery gained by these sculptors of the human form over their in yet mingled with regret that so few examples have escaped the hands of the iconoclast mirth tire ravages if war.

We who have worshipped at the feet of Hermues, Aphrodite, the DiscnmboIris, the Gladiator Mr. the Illisus, or the other masterpieces that adormi the Parthenon, feel that things is and the occasion to enter upon the various merits of the works of those great artists. Time have been of incalculable value to art and history. They tell the story of their age. We acknowledge them to be the absolute and imurrutabte standards of physical beauty the irleiths for more artists and dilemma of the world.

The pedimiretit of sculpture expresses at once grandeur power and life, and in is to he regretted that architects of the Victorian era have not been more inspired with the use attn possibilities of statuary—the most profound and longest enduring firmer of Art-- especially in connection with public buildings and monuments in which the nation's history should be indelibly writer.

How have we of the 18th and t9rh ecirtunies treated the classic orders These forms of architecture have been largely used for public buildings. birth in Great Britain and America, butt what relation have they nosier to their ancient prototypes? Where are the sculptured pediment, frieze and metopes of beauty ninth action, once instinct with life and imagery ?—the timed walls and story? They have the parted the sheen of the rainbow has gone floor the classic mouldings texture of marble, mosaics, encaustic and polyehrome, all omitted ; Phidias and Ajuelles are banisherh ; the teniphe has fallen. The diadem has been torn from her brow, tire jewel from her fire as I--the rohe of beauty replaced by sackcloth arid ashes. The skeleton alone in dingy angry or blackened stone, is all that remains to us moderns to help is to imagine we name beholding a noble Greek or Roman columnar edifice, amid to enthuse about Surely an anachronism in art 

With more extravagance and luxury of Imperial Rome, the purity amid beauty of Greek sculpt mire were lost, and with Rome's final destruction all art was extinguished except first of the nionks.

Front tire Byzantine arid die Basilica evolved the Gothic, an entirely new departure. No rInimmiur the nominate was mite progenitor or archetype of the spire in mid tower ; I mitt roIe principle underlying this remarkable revolution from an aesthetic pinots of vein sins the overthrow of time rectangular in art. The temple. simorn of its sculpture and color is heavy, uninteresting and depressing, and its minor ornaments, tisouigh chrinste, are monotonous nimble severe.

Both in plan and elevation, the disposition of the masses of material in Ire Gothic hieing monlelled furore after natures ideal of form, is a blending of Iranmutonrious lines pleasing time the eye. Immerse nothing in nature struggles— tide of the rectangular. The luxury plaint-life ornament of the early English ; the clustered columns; trefoil tracery ; graceful arches and groined chapels ; those lofty spires seemed to break through the burden of earthly cares and carry sip with them like incense the prayers of the Christian in

worship if the trite God to the very feet oh heaven.		lift tip your Mean's,

oh ye gates I amid the glory slinrinil courier. This was the spiritual significant of the Gothic ; and it became clothed with at least earthly glory.

Color and texture were added to form. Marbles of every tint, mural paintings, mosaics, the sculptured niche and statues—everything that wealth and art could bestow to render the habitation of God a dream of heavenly beauty Gloria in Excelsis Geo.'

In tire revivnmh of art and learning in Italy, sculptures anti painting again took their plume ruin no power in the world Aesthetic: unity and harmony of design were insured and rendered more potent by the fact that its so many instances, painting, sculpture amid architecture were combined iii mire work f the same artist.

The Florentines were trick to appreciate and express their joy on the lawn of renewed artistic life. When Cimabue first taught the world to paint a new Florence proclaimed a public holiday in honor oh bus masterpiece for S. Mririri Novello Nicola I'ensano, I Glotto Brunellischi Donarehlo, Della Robbia, Chiberti amble there arebtects, painters arid sculptors— he progenitors of the Renaissance—brought their genius and devotion to

-ring about the fuller perfection which culminated in Raphael Correggio, Da Vinci and Michael Angelo—the four pillars or archangels oh that great epoch art—-ninth terminated in Celleni, lintoretto. tint in and Paul nonsense masterful experiments of the time mundane magnificence e of Vemmuce.

The Italian revival affected tire purity of Hehlensie form but it accomplished something greater —it portrayed iron merely the perfection of sensuous beauty in the form or sublime grandeur of than gods the teach-sings of Christ were expressed in human sympathy and love, devotion and adoration, at the gift of God in his son, and the struggles and throes through which man is passing to attain eternal life. What a joyous note oh hope,

