<doctype type="text">ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Paper on English Methods" author="Baker, Frank">PAPER ON "ENGLISH METHODS."*

By <person>FRANK BAKER</person>, A. R. I. B. A.



THE subject of my paper "English Methods," is obviously one which would be impossible to go deeply into, in a small paper but a short resume of some of the most striking ' methods" may not prove interesting.

The absence of extremes in the climate of England, of the brilliant sun light, and severe heat or cold, and the continual dull or semi-dull atmosphere, impresses us at once with the impossibility 'of getting a sparkling or brilliant effect in exteriors, no matter what materials are used, and the architects many centuries ago as now, have wisely decided that there is no use attempting to get an effect such as is seen in America, or France or Italy in the English climate.

Some venturesome architects of later years, have attempted to relieve the admitted monotonous appearance of the cities and towns, by erecting buildings of terra-cotta and brick, both combined in bright colors, and by working in lighter styles, as Spanish Renaissance, Florentine, Flemish, etc.; the former, however, soon lose their luster, and the weathering of the latter presently made apparent their unsuitability to the climate, so that the mar who abides by tradition, achieves the greatest success in the long run.

An illustration of this was given in the recent competition for the completion of the <building>South Kensington Museum</building>, at London, when amongst the eight designs submitted by selected architects (four selected by the Government and four by the R. I. B. A.), one was sent under the motto English Tradition," illustrating a building of excellent plan, but with a cut stone exterior of the heaviest possible character, much more suitable for a jail or bank that for a museum of the nature of the S. K. M., and the ludicrous effect of this building in juxtaposition with the present building, on Exhibition road, (de. signed in light Italian Renaissance style, and constructed of brick and terra cotta) the <building>Natural History Museum </building>and the Imperial Institute, can easily be imagined. It was not accepted.

Surrounding existing conditions were entirely ignored by this competitor, who apparently had well in mind the effect of climatic influence, yet had the expert in the cases of the above mentioned buildings selected designs in keeping with the climate, the design of ' English Tradition" would undoubtedly have been a close competitor. as with one exception the other designs were to my mind quite unsuited to the English climate. Thus it

that the successful buildings are those of strong substantial design, emblematically of the climate, and we all know how eminently successful many of them are.

The foregoing has led up to the importance of considerably surrounding conditions in designing, a question of course of first importance, and yet frequently ignored; many instances of the success of adopting it, and of the failure by neglect of it, could be sighted, but one occurs to me which will illustrate the latter. An architect having under way a city building of importance in London, observed when his building was showing well above the hoarding, that preparations for rebuilding were being commenced in the adjoining premises. He very courteously on discovering the identity of the architect, wrote to him offering to send him a set of plans of his building, so that the neighboring architect might govern himself, in finally deciding upon his exterior, materials, skyline, etc., etc. This gentleman unwisely returned a reply that he had already determined upon his design, and he did not contemplate altering it. The result, as might be expected, was an anomaly the last built building being of less importance, like its architect, was completely overpowered, where a little care and judgment, might have made an harmonious whole. English method in the use of materials, both with regard to appearance and construction, requires little comment ; its excellence in each direction, and more especially the latter, is or should be well known.

Color as applied to interiors, is like all exteriors, usually very quiet. probably another effect of the climate; of brilliance and sparkle, there is none; the grandeur of the weather stone, or the rich glow of the oak, black with age, is more to be noticed than lavish coloring or gilt, so much seen in the neighboring Republic, France. Go from the parish church to the Cathedral, from the Mansion House to the College Halls of Oxford, from even the most brilliant theatre, to St. George's Hall, Liverpool, and color will be found used only in a quiet way.

Of planning I have nothing to say, except that in almost every case, as it should be, the elevation is made of minor importance to the plan. Of 'English Methods" in construction, there are many to comment upon, and some perhaps to criticize. Foundations are nearly always of cement concrete, and in most if not all cases, the concrete is continued about 8" thick under the whole building; whether basements are excavated or not, the ground beneath the floors is covered. Damp proof courses of asphalt or slate are built into the foundation walls, below the point on which any wood-work rests. Dry areas with heavy retaining walls are constructed around all buildings so that no foundation walls come against the earth, and these are carefully drained. Perhaps one of the most noticeable instance of the use of concrete as a foundation, is under the Victoria Tower of the Imperial Institute, where the masonry starts from a block of concrete 40 ft. square and 18 ft. thick. Coke breeze concrete is largely used or the construction of fire proof floors, staircases, etc., and from its lightest is much to be commended, and might be used in this country with good results.

The grandeur of English stone work is typical of the country. Here is no ham, no paving slabs on edge, every stone laid carefully on its natural bed, and where backing of brick is used, it is generally indicated on the face, as in large public building constructed of Portland stone, where the architect

has caused two courses of brick to be carried around under the main cornice, and on noticing this the observer is not surprised to see that the interior courts are walled with brick, and realizes at once the nature of the building Stone hanging staircases, worthy but difficult of imitation, are frequently to be seen, cornices and ornament which would naturally be stone, are stone, not copper or iron painted in imitation. Finally, enough cannot be said of the beauty and durability of stone groined roofs of which so many are seen. In such things is the secret of England's supremacy, and when will our capitalists learn the advantage to the country, to themselves and their posterity to be gained by investing sufficient money to guarantee the substantial and lasting character of their buildings.

Wood, as applied to heavy construction and joinery, is used regardless of expense; when applied to roof trusses, etc., the timbers are always of far larger scantling than calculation shows to be necessary, but the Englishman says we will be on the safe side," and doubles it, and none but good results can arise from this, though there may be an apparent waste of material. The idea of our slow burning or mill construction is, I suppose, taken from the construction of the floors in the average country residence in England, as they are constructed on the same principle.

Of steel or iron construction as applied to architecture, this is to be said, that if the building is of any importance an engineer is called in to assist the architect, and if the building is of minor importance, it were better that the engineer had been called in, or the metal left out, for English architects do not profess to be engineers, and what we consider of first importance here is entirely of secondary moment there.

In sanitary science the Englishman now, as always, sets us an example from which much can be learned. The system of carrying all soil pipes on the outside of outside walls is a good one, and though it is said that our severe climate prevents our adopting this principle here, it is likely that we will come to it in some form eventually. Perhaps a well ventilated brick flue might be constructed to contain these pipes, but something ought to be done to get them outside of the building.

The disconnecting chamber is another excellent device used by English architects. A chamber about ft. cube is placed in the ground in close proximity to the building, and into this the main drain and all connections are brought. The main pipe is halved from where it enters the chamber to where it leaves it, and the cement bottom is sloped up to the sides from the top of the lower half which forms a trough. At the outlet of this pipe has a double trap with a cleaning eye, and at all angles a cleaning eye is placed. The disconnecting chamber has an air-tight cover, and is constructed of solid masonry. Ventilation pipes are taken from it, clear above the buildings. Sink wastes, and main water pipes are made to discharge in the open the pipe is severed, and discharges on a grating, covering a trap leading to the pipe which connects it with the disconnecting chamber; the latter in the case of a sink is always a grease trap.

Lavatories are, when the money to be expended allows, luxuriously fitted up, second to none which I have seen in any country, and in this respect, the lavatories for the public use placed beneath the pavements in many of the principal squares in London are not far behind. New York and Paris have much to learn in this way.

The heating of public and private buildings has of late years been receiving more attention from English architects. The old open fireplace is found inadequate, or the hardy Saxons are losing their strength, but perfection or even semi-perfection which we Americans have achieved in this respect, has not yet been reached by the Britisher at home.

Great perfection is reached in the ventilation of large theatres and rooms of assembly, however; in the modern theatre the top gallery has just as pleasant an atmosphere as the pit.

In the preparing of drawings the thorough methods of the English are again evident. More care in drawing and correctness of scale, with a smaller number of figures and notes is a feature. Some architects prepare working drawings at one sixth scale, the object being to prevent mechanics roughly scaling off with a foot rule and forcing them to use a proper scale, which gives them the exact dimension. Full size details are all carefully drawn and inked in on good paper and on small sheets if possible, none of the unwieldy rolls of full size details, so common here, are ever seen in England. Half inch or inch scale details, of all facades are always provided. Perspective drawings are beautifully finished and care is taken to have surrounding conditions accurately drawn. Each working drawing bears the reference number of the job, the drawing number and date of making, and a book is kept in the office with a memorandum of when and by whom each drawing is taken away. Sun prints are used a little, but not universally. Specifications are written and quantities estimated by a "Quantity Survey" for whose payment provision is made by the contractor.

Of professional practice in England, it is at once apparent that the profession is on a sound and excellent footing. The R. I. B. A. has done much good work, and its examinations offer a test of knowledge which is eagerly sought. ' e exertions of the late Mr. Street, combined with those of the Royal Institute, have done much to adjust the former trouble with competitions. Some fifteen hundred architects signed a memorial, promising to abstain from entering any competition, unless a professional adjudicator was appointed. The result of this was at once seen and the young practitioner has since had a better chance of becoming established in practice. Surely with our Association, it would be easy for us to arrive at this result, and I trust before long to see something of the sort done, and every architect must see that the final result will be for his own good and the good f the profession. Another evil which threatens to upset the profession in Canada, if not remedied, though not so apparent in England, is that of cutting rates of commission. Members of the R. I. B. A. sign a declaration

