<doctype type="text">yet are flooded with light, and this is partly due to the reflecting properties of fresco. Where dust and smoke, flies and cobwebs are such disfiguring agents as with us, it is difficult to understand how those wonderful inspirations of the grand old masters can have been preserved so many centuries beautiful and perfect, while the great quantities of such work is incredible.

in our business and similar buildings large spaces are covered and built over by the use of iron columns and beams, whereas, the Roman builders use large square brick piers and elliptic arches, from which spring the vaulting. The brickwork is always covered. A very few recent examples of excellent pressed brickwork may be seen, but its foreign extraction and aspect are painfully apparent. Stores usually consist of one or more cavern like rooms, with arched opening toward the street, the plate glass of doors, etc., held by the slenderest lines of wood or metal, more like show ease construction. Rome has, however, one large departmental store block, with light all around, of modern design but of Roman construction. Stairs, when not marble or other stone, are built of brick and finished in stucco to look like marble or alabaster, with balustrade in same finish or of iron.

Rome having a church for each day in the year, and a few to spare, and all of the same faith, not much church building is now in progress, though perhaps not one of these can be said to lie completed Work may be going on continuously, as for instance the mosaic in St. Peters, or may he resumed at intervals of possibly a few centuries. They are mostly built in the manner described, of raw brick work, with barrel vaulted nave and transepts, with central dome, cross vaulted aisles and the whole buttressed by dome covered chapels. The interior, and especially the chapels, may have received the most extravagant finish and decoration, in numerous instances costing millions of dollars, while the exterior remains raw brickwork, apparently a ruin, though many have at some period had stucco or stone fronts added as a viewer, by Michael Angelo or others of the old masters.

St. Peter's dome consists of an inner and outer shell of brick and concrete, the ascent being between them by steps of brick formed on the inner shell, even the lantern being similar. The ball on top and supporting the cross, is of copper over an iron frame, and into it may ascend comfortably 12 men at the same time The ascent to the main roof is by a brick paved spiral incline, so easy and roomy that in a similar ascent in the tower of St. Marks, Venice, Bonaparte and two of his officers rode their horses to the top. It has been stated in print that on the roof of St. Peter's is a village of several hundred workmen, with their families an even domestic animals, gardens, &c. This is not true, though there might he plenty of room In the Vatican palace adjoining there is ample room for the 6oo Swiss guards still maintained by the Pontiff, besides other hundreds of his subjects still remaining faithful. In St. Peter's the great number of large altar pictures, once frescoes, have been carefully removed and pieced together again in frames, to enrich other churches and museums, while their places have been as gradually filled in with the same pictures reproduced in everlasting mosaic of which the greatest production is carried on within the Vatican. The great dome and its lantern are now also entirely lined with mosaic. The tombs of many of the popes in St. Peters are magnificent groups of sculpture, but Pius IX at his death directed that his body be laid in a lower chapel of St. Lorenzo, outside the walls of Rome and leading down into the catacombs. He desired no monument, but to be interred in the simplest manner, just facing the tomb of St. Stephen. His wishes were carried out, but are now being disobeyed iii this manner The whole interior of the large apartment is being lined  with mosaic, in which is interwoven the coats of antis of all the Bishops in the world, a most elaborate work and costing over a million dollars. In speaking of the richness of these churches it is to be remembered that the interiors are referred to, and particularly their chapels and altars where are to be found many of the masterpiece and richest gems, gathered into Rome during all ages and from all quarters of the globe.

The largest churches are generally basilica in from with a great variety of columns &c. , from ancient temples The most beautiful is St. Paul's, outside the walls. Its flooring and rows of immense columns are of highly polished marbles. The ceiling of the nave is in covered, decorated and gilded paneling, while the uniform bears large medallions of the whole long list of Popes down to date. Here are also the most beautiful cloisters of the Roman church. Though stained glass is not usually a prominent feature there, this church sustained the loss of half a million dollars worth of it, caused by the explosion of a powder mill in the vicinity a few years ago. In St. Peters are placed twelve beautiful columns from Solomon's temple and from their form are modeled what are called Easter candlesticks. The past and present, pagan and Christian, are so visibly blended everywhere there, that nothing need be doubted. Why spoil the charm? The citizens of Trastevere, a certain quarter of Rome, claim to be the pure and undefiled descendants of one of the prehistoric tribes. On certain opposite street corners are situated exact pairs of churches. Several churches are closed except on the festival of the patron saint, In the city are no less than 80 churches dedicated to Santa Marie.

There are now at least a dozen Protestant church communities only one having a building deserving notice, the English church, a design by <person>Mr. Street</person>. These are but little known to the Romans, amid probably few would know whether the term referred to Christian or pagan though there is a Protestant cemetery also.

One ancient tomb known to lie 1900 years old, is a perfectly preserved pyramid of white marble, externally at least, i6 feet high. The greatest of the Egyptian obelisks are set up in the various squares, the largest 104 feet high, or with its pedestal 153 feet, and first erected 34 centuries ago.

There is usually little or no provision for warming buildings, except that supplied by fire places, and as foreigners demand fires, stoves of the most useless character are set up in their rooms, and frequently may be seen small smoke pipes carried through the outer walls in rows at each story. The better houses of course have stationary cooking ranges and more or less plumbing. Instead of the American self-feeder may be seen specimens of what are known as Dutch stoves, very high and built of decorated, glazed porcelain. A fire started in one to-day might begin to warm through before next week. For warming the hands and for cooking purposes, the portable brassier is common. Hundreds of

tenements have never had a fire in them fur any purpose. A brassier of coals on a tripod, in the street serves to do the cooking for a neighborhood.

The fuel is generally charcoal, or mulberry twigs, cut off with the silk cocoons, dried, and sold in bundles like sheaves of grain. An amusing sight on a country road, is a loan of these bundles, looking like a load of bay, moving along with no visible team or wagon, but on close inspection may be seen the slender legs of a donkey on whose hack the load is bound.

lint baths are not so frequently required iii so clean a climate, and are an expensive luxury, demanded only by time foreigner. Hot tea or coffee is hardly known amongst people where wine is the common poor man's family beverage, it might he here remarked that the license system so requisite among better regulated people like ourselves, is unknown in those benighted countries. Wine amid oil, staple articles, and forming the stock of certain shops, are sold as freely as tea and better with tins. There is no saloon or hotel liar, no treating and though everybody- drinks there is absolutely no drunkenness.

Plumbing appliances are scarce and erode, water even most being supplied into all residences—in fact it is little used except by foreigners. On the other hand, there is most extravagant abundance for fountains and cascades, perpetually flowing and mainly through the ancient aqueducts. There being no expensive pumping plant to maintain there are no water rates. With no frontage tax, a prince may have a street front all around his house. There being no money in supplying water to citizens, and no further power being in demand for fleecing visitors, the aqueduct promoters retired in disgust and gave tip the ghost some mime ago. Happy citizens.

Neatly built and well kept public conveniences, attended by females, are to lie found in -dl public squares, parks, &c. But one very frequent convenience for men only', and to which the fastidious foreigner does not soon become acclimated is the immodest urinal. It is. a V shaped vertical niche of polished marble, perhaps 6" deep, in the walls of buildings of any kind on the street line, not so common on the principal streets, hut generally just within the entrance to all nunor streets. To the ordinary Roman it makes no difference how crowded may be the sidewalk lie exercises his privilege with a clear conscience. It is a most sanitary contrivance being always exposed, and perpetually flushed by aqueduct water. in Naples a more offensive practice is commonly indulged iii by numbers of men along the curb, mummy time after sunset

all filth of course being removed before sunrise and time pavement flushed.

Whatever may have been the case formerly no city could have cleaner or better paved streets, lanes, squares, &c., than the Rome of to-day--the commonest pavement being a mosaic (if small, square, fine grained stones, tooth shaped amid driven down level in coarse sand They wear to a smooth slightly convexed surface amid are easily removed or reset. Everywhere this is kept perfectly clean and stands well the traffic which is seldom heavier than carriages or omnibuses. The sewerage system is as complete as iii any modern city, the "cloaca maxima" of antiquity still serving as one of the trunk sewers and all entering into the clay' colored Tiber At London the Thames embankment of granite is a great work, butt equally' so, and some higher, is that of white marble lining both banks of the Tiber, with its bite marbles classic balustrade and frequent steps down to boat landings. The railway' merely enters the city' and backs out again to the switch, burrowing diagonally under the walls into a fine large station facing a beautiful public square. No nuisance is permitted from smoke, whistles dangerous tracks, unsightly sheds, &c. The railway there does riot own the earth," butt is owned and well managed by' the state, lacing the station on the other side of time square, are the extensive ruins of the Baths of Diocletian, mint of which have been partitioned a monastery hospital, college, museum a large portion of time public square amid it's churches, one of which was the work of Michael Angelo, who utilized the ancient granite columns as they- stood, 40 feet in height.

It seems strange in this age that any city' should depend on defensive walls, yet such would seem to lie the case with nearly- all Mediterranean cities. It is hard to realize that these peaceable, kind and courteous Italians who became a free and united nation only 25 years ago, have scarcely' ever known peace during the past 25 centuries.



In all the Mediterranean countries nearly cry elevation of rock, hill or mountain has its pinnacle of ruined castle, fortress or monastery. In certain cases these have continued to be inhabited within their enclosing walls, which seem to have been built to keep the houses from falling over the cliff, but probably' to make it interesting for a surprise party' of time neighbors. As population increased, and spread out over the plain below new and more extended walls were built and thus grew up walled cities, nearly all retaining the monastery within the citadel on the highest point In one place, Orvieto for instance as approached by rail from either direction on the plain, nothing of time city' can be seen but the ancient Grey stone walls, crowning the escarpment of the rock, several hundred feet above. Leasimug the train amid station, instead of taking a cab or 'bus, the traveler enters the ear of an inclined railway, or funicuhaire," and is shot tip through the rock tunnel under the walls and landed in a public square then taking a cab to his hotel. Here '' no architect need apply," for though ii all alive," there has been a new building done for 500 years. Time object of a visit here is their wonderful old cathedral, an example of early Italian gothic, the west front of which is said to be the grandest polychrome in existence, and in the blaze of time setting sun is certainly a most gorgeous spectacle.

The oldest walls of Rome built of Tufa, without mortar enclosed a square on the Palatine Hill. Its founder Romulus, was nurtured by a she wolf, in a cave, still shown in this same hill. A bronze image of the wolf, partly corroded away', was found at a hater date in this cave and is preserved mm the Capitoline museum in corroboration of the legend. In later times each of the seven hills was enclosed by its separate wall and finally all became incorporated as a happy family', within one enclosure Portions of the ancient walls still remain - The present walls built of stone, concrete and brick and dating back some fifteen centuries are about 50 feet high, 12 miles in extent, and entered. through 12 gates, a feast others having been walled up The population said at certain periods to have been two and a half millions, is now

