<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

of harmony of sentiment, of love and adoration was theirs—Persano, Giotto, Donatello Della Robbia Ghiberti

Religions faith was the stimulus which inspired their genius and devotion How much is art indebted to these sculptors of the early Renaissance

In the conception of a noble edifice, the architect has crossed the border line of a mere building i.e., a HUGE: cube with holes to admit light and entrance—and entered the domain of the painter and sculptor. Form, in its first stage, viz. the handling g and arranging into harmony of the gross masses or masonry so as to bring about the greatest effect of beauty and proportion realizing noble outline or form in the gross. The carver must now join turn in decorative enrichments to make the work interesting and repay clover inspection—form to detail or abstract still only ornament. The sculptor then takes him to higher plane with emblematic or symbolic figures, in basso or alto relief or round attached form in transition, in which the walls gently breathe the story or mind of the building, its history or purpose. No taint of art is more profound, than these children of the mist emerging front fancy into reality form in the first stage of statuary.

Every building of importance should be treated in this way and would therefore he an object lesson and work of interest forever, not only to those who see it many times perhaps every day of their lives—hut also to the stranger the most emphatic record if civic or national achievements events or progress.

The Reformation gave the death knell to sculpture and ornamentation for a time in Protestant countries, till a church became bereft of all beauty The Gothic was treated similarly to rite Classic —shorn of its art—the shell only remaining, and all art suffered in consequence

How sad it is to look upon our cathedrals in brick- not in form, but, alas,

-----in texture arid color. It is only during the last quarter of this century that we are beginning to awake from this iconoclastic superstition and believe that we can worship God ''in spirit and in truth" and at the same time beautify his house with tinted walls and stained glass, and other decorations.

Freedom and toleration are the spirit of the age, and the impulse in art is to discover something new anti best adapted to our surroundings In architecture we are in a state of transition if not of chaos, and in danger of degenerating into confusion and ugliness. It is this critical stage that affords the opportunity for our architects to create a style that while retaining all that is beautiful in the heritage of the past will meet the requirements if the climate and be distinctly national in character ornament and expression

Form is the first element of the beautiful in aesthetics and influences everything we see and hear in nature arid art, from t he throat of a nightingale or a Patti the melody of a Stradivarius, to mite acoustics of s building, and should lie the object of study from the lowest step to, the highest pinnacle of a structure In a wider sense it also affects the trying out of streets parks squares and gardens; the selection of a site the r used plateau or eminence grandeur upon which importance edifices may be erected the fountain steps and terraced walk with sculptured vases and ideal statuary, such as we see at the Crystal Palace Versailles the Tuilleries Gardens or in Edinburgh All arc form perceptible to sight and touch and instinct with life and power to give us joy and elevate our souls, improve our manners and relieve our daily burthens

The modern Romanesque does not impress you with sense of grandeur or beauty. Its basket- work ornament unlike the longer and more graceful Gothic plant life, is indefinite and confusing soil with the horrible heads of animals I called ' grotesque is barbarous hr no , doubt originated in the early stages of inability to imitate life better It is unfit tar a woman to look upon, and should be banished from the front or any part of a building where the lesson of beauty should be presented There is a place for the conventional- but as little of it as possible The lamp of truth in arm has been extinguished so many mimes by wars and Puritanism than form still goes on crutches in the respect of carving and sculpture

Foliage, fruit, flowers and other imitations of organic objects, should keep as close to nature as possible, to be of interest due regard being paid by the nature of the material employed Organic nature should be more largely drawn from for objects of ornament, -tort executed in the fullness of its natto rat beauty. The divine sculptor has furnished us with many noble and beautiful examples for imitation to with- the lion the tiger, the horse. the ox, the ram, the hound, the deer and gazelle the eagle, the swan. the dove and other birds ; the dolphin, the nautilus and o her denizens of the deep. Many of these arc symbolic all are grand or beautiful, anti as ornament in appropriate positions, would be of far greater interest than conventional scrolls, and serve to remind tins of the wonders of nature.

floe higher stages of sculpture proper viz., figure subjects in relief and the statue or group in the round form may lie termed the ' ' tamp of lie.'' and provision should he made for each of these forms in every building which claims to he a work of architecture, The relief has been described as the shibboleth or watchword of art, and has a philosophy neculiary its own. It is specially adapted for emblematic figures, filling spaces in the architecture and for special subjects in the history of the institution to which the building is dedicated, on the exterior or in positions where painting is undesirable.

The entrance and inner halls, vestibule and staircase ate suitable for natural or emblematic statuary, brackets for hosts, tint! niches for statues of the genus loci founder or benefactor care being taken by the architect that light is provided at a suit table angle for both night arid day

The highest stage of sculpture has no necessary connection with a building. unless from local circumstances It is reached in either the group or solitary figure expressing Sri abstract motif an emotion or passion or any of the higher attributes of our being, or the elements of nature which may bear personification or in national monuments where philanthropy statesmanship or patriotism are commemorated.

The next important member of the aesthetic trinity is color and when we consider the share this element occupies in the book of nature how generously the Almighty has decked his creatures—whether our wondering up. turned eyes gaze into the infinite azure of the brave overhanging firmament fretted with golden fire ' the jasper of the vastly deep ; the carnation of the rose the pallor or orstige of this lily- each with its spiritual significance and relation to form and sound- we recognize am once the length and depth and breathe of his boundless generosity in this particular gift and we marvel how if can be possible 1st in the 10th century man should, even in his most joyous and festive moments clothe himself black from head to foot a color that is always alluded to in terms of horror and associated with our worst enemy and one that is the least seen in nature kaleidoscope

Color is nature s life and light and joy-giver, and when its presence us withheld from us, our spirits are in like measured depressed To speak of tier riches requires the rhapsody of mite poet to comprehend tier glory. the eye and wings of the eagle to carry us in the floor of heaven the painter is privileged to penetrate her hidden mysteries and capture the fleeting subtleties  of her ever-changing moods.

In architecture, the scheme of color decoration	should receive the most careful consideration and be in relation and conjunction moon with the carving and ornament in form In all important buildings spaces should be provided in the halls, staircase and ceilings, arches and domes for special frescoes by artists of ability, affording opportunity for tableaux of prominent incidents or scenes in the life of the country, in alliance with the objects out the building. By this means the skill of attn eminent painters could he utilized for the education happiness and intellectual enjoyment of the people, stained glass, mosaic furnishing and lighting, should all he included in the one scheme of design and require the same mind and care in their use——the cardinal virtue of all decoration being strictly observed, viz., the securing of cluster and space arid repose, so essential in art.

In order to effect a complete aesthetic harmony, texture—its substance, or rather material- has to be considered which, of course is involved so largely in color that the one coin hardly be discussed without mite other, bearing as in does the same relation to form as turn does to sound, The ancients saw the importance of producing color and texture, and where costly marbles could root he procured the artifact substitute approaching as nearly as possible to the semi-transparent beauty of marble was pro. vided, Stone is the next best material especially for carving limit cannot be relied upon to stand climate influences besides toot fulfilling the highest aesthetic requirements Brick, as it has been used, is an abomination butt we are glad to see improvements taking place in its manufacture Greater size and neutrality of color, combined with a soft or egg-shell glaze may render it much more acceptable Under this head I nay mention a material which. now existing, bum not no general rise, having all the beauty my of texture and colors of marble, is root affected by climate

in the brief remarks the present opportunity has afforded tote, I have endeavored to show the important place Form occupies in the elements of the beautiful especially in its pre-eminent phases of architecture and sculpture. and the influence it must hose upon the dignity and attractiveness of a city of learning arm and culture and as the medium of expression of a nation illustrious in noble deeds and beneficence yet I feel the fringe only of the subject have been approached.

Before concluding this paper, I venture to call attention to two or more- tree matters seriously affecting mite beauty of our city, and which constitute an outrage into good taste and common sense

1st The dangerous stud unsightly trolley telephone and electric light poles. wires &c., which should never have been erected in a city like Toronto.

2nd. The want of public squares, tastefully laid out. The objectionable mode of taxing lawns at the side of residences,

3rd. The disposition to build up our principal corners to an angle instead of to an octagon or circus

4th. We are now erecting municipal buildings of a costly character and if the system of building without regard no beauty is allowed to continue, the view as you ascend Bay street will be narrowed, and mite Court House dwarfed by sonic enterprising merchants. Such a course would be worse than a blunder, and should nut he allowed to take place at any price.

Many other points its connection with tire aesthetic welfare of our city demand immediate attention What is required tot prevent future mistakes, and perhaps rectify past errors, is the appointment of some central authority such as a City Architect or Minister of Public Works, to prevent mite erection of unsightly buildings. and preserve important open places as gardens. Such a person or board of control should he appointed for their known taste and abilities and they should hue backed up by an association of dilleianti both professional our! lay, whit would carefully guard the aesthetic interests of the city, and render it the pride of tier inhabitants, the admiration of its visitors and the envy of other cities.

Brehren in Art—As the genii and guardians of the beautiful, in all that concerns the artistic progress of your country, and the cities its which you dwell, you are called upon to devote your talents, your lose ant! your watchfulness to her service to bind yourselves together in the Brotherhood of Art, for hr defense; for the vanquishment of the Philistine and the Utilitarian ; for the prevention of errors and incongruities outrages to taste anti beauty frequently occurring tool which now threaten irreparable injury to the few remaining places of interest in this city ; that you apply your genius to the development of a distinctly Canadian Architecture, suitable to the conditions of the country, and upon which shall be implanted in sculpture trot! p tooting, tire romance and lore of tier history, the valor of bier sours, the beauty of her daughters and the industry and resources of her petopie. together with the picturesque grandeur of your scenery and skies—notes of harmony and patriotism, which shall shed luster upon your country, inspire the poem, the musician and the historian, and earn for yourselves a niche I in rite eternal to-nut lute of fame 



DISCUSSION.

The President said he felt we all tourist have greatly enjoyed <person>Mr. MacCarthy </person>admirable paper. He thought the range of subject matter in the papers read at the present convention showed the great scope of tire architectural profession.

<person>Mr. Aylsworth </person>said no doubt the members were being educated as architects and artists, but something further was needed. He would ask, are the people at large being educated as fast as they might he to a higher degree of artistic taste? Until there prevailed a sentiment of patriotism among the people it was useless to hook for tine production of grand public buildings nor without a national religious feeling could be expected noble temples such as were to be found in other lands. Ito his reading he had come across an extract which he would like to read. It would have been a source of great satisfaction could he have told the Convention that it emanated from the City Council of Toronto, but truth compelled him to say that it canoe from the archives of the city of Florence, and it was some 6oo years old. It would explain to a certain extent how the durable and magnificent buildings which delighted the eye of the traveler in older lands than our own, came more existence. It was the decision of what in our days would be called the Council after the destruction of one of the Florentine churches

Whereas, it is of the highest interest to a people of illustrious origin, so to proceed in their affairs that men may perceive front their external works that their designs were a once wise arid magnanimous ; it is therefore ordered that Arnolfo, Architect of our Commune prepare a model or design for the rebuilding of Santa Reparta, with such supreme among lavish magnificence that neither the industry moor the capacity of man shall be able to devise anything more grand or more beautiful ; has much as the most judicious in this city have pronounced the opinion in public and private conferences that no work of the commune should be undertaken unless the design be to make it correspondent with a heart which is of the greatest nature, because composed of the spirit of many citizens united together in one single will."

