<doctype type="text">THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.



SKETCH FOR PROPOSED HOUSE FOR A. <person>DICKSON PATTERSON</person>,



TORONTO.—<firm>DARLING, SPROATT & PEARSON, ARCHITECTS</firm>.



COTE ST. ANTOINE ACADEMY, MONTREAL—<person>ALEX. C. HUTCHISON</person>ARCHITECT.



BOOK CASE AND WRITING TABLE FOR CUVLER A. HALLAND,



- DESIGN BY <person>R. MACKAY FRIPP </person>F R 1 B A

VANCOUVER, B. C.

	RIEVAULX	ABBEY, YORKSHIRE.



THE sire selected for the Abbey was on the sloping bank of the Rie. The Valley of the Rie is SO tortuous that, looking from the Abbey, it seems to stand in a magnificent amphitheater, surrounded on all sides by hills clothed with trees rising to the level of the moors above. From its situation it obtains the name of " Rievale" or " Rivaulx," and is called in the neighborhood "Rieval" and "Rivers." It was founded by Sir Walter d'Espec, who endow I his foundation with the manor of Hamelac, with wood and pannages for their hogs in his forest and four carncates of land (a carncate being as much as one team could plough in a year). Its first Abbot was William, a monk of Clairvaux (1131—1146),—" a man of great virtue and excellent memory"— the last, Richard or Rowland Blyton, who, with 23 monks, signed the surrender. The history of Rievanlx is meager and uneventful, sheltered as it is in its secluded valley-—-the highroad to and from nowhere. The brethren appear to have commenced building a small stone church in the prevalent Norman style immediately after their settlement, of which nothing remains except the lower portion of the transept, which was incorporated with the new church built by Archbishop Abred, in the pointed Gothic which was then becoming fashionable with the Cistercian order. The choir, although roofless, is in a tolerable state of preservation, although portions of the outer walls of the aisles are gone. The aisles were separated from the center by ranges of clustered columns, with banding instead of capitals, from which spring richly moulded pointed arches. Above the triforium the center spandrel, ornamented with quarter foils in stink circles. At the east end are six lancet lights—three and three— the upper tier with clustered shafts and lozenge mouldings, and flanking these at the end of the aisles are two smaller lights, all richly moulded. The turret staircases to the triforium were placed at the angles, but only one now remains. The clerestory windows are also lancet—fourteen on each side--in pairs under an arch outside. Each pair is flanked by a smaller blank lancet. The refectory is a noble apartment 100 feet by 30 feet, situated on the west side of the Quad.

The ruins were at one time much overgrown with ivy, which has been removed. At the dissolution the commissioners caused the lead to be stripped from the roofs of the church, rite Abbot's house and other buildings, nearly all of which remain sufficiently to trace out the whole plan, and it is remarkable that the mouldings are as sharp and clear to-day as when they left the builder's hands.

Many abbeys have sprung from Rievaulx—notably Melrose, Revesly and Rufford- -and its influence spread to York and Fountain, many of them passing under the Cisfercian rule. The Abbey of Byland is within a few miles, and the whole district is rich in antiquities. Rievaulx is owned by the Duncombe family, whose seat is at Hembley, the nearest town.



<article title="A Pompeiian Bathroom" author="">A POMPEILAN BATHROOM.



A VERY interesting discovery recently made near the old site of Pompeii is described in the European journals. A large building was unearthed on the property of a Signor de Prosco, containing several rooms, among them three bathrooms, furnished with large sculptured marble basins, heating apparatus, lean plumbing work, with bronze faucets, and tiled floors and walls. The three rooms correspond in their arrangements with the usual hot, tepid and cold baths usually found in the old dwellings of the wealthy classes. This is, however, said to he the most complete, richest and best bathing installation so far found. it has been so well preserved on accotint of the roof not having caved in during the great eruption of Vesuvius which buried the city of Pompeii in the year 79. Most of the houses were entirely destroyed at that time, only a few vaulted structures resisting the immense pressure of the lava and ashes. This roof is nearly 45 feet in length.

<article title="The Application of Colour to Architecture" author="Stalker, G.F.">TILE APPLICATION OF COLOUR TO ARCHI



TECTURE 



Ev <person>G. F. STALKER</person>.



FOR a very long period the idea prevailed among architects, and the public, generally, that the application of colour to buildings, in any way whatever, was a sign of effeminacy or pedantry, or a lack of taste. It was considered that anything which interfered with the tameness of tone in the material of which a building was constructed, interfered with, if it did not altogether destroy, the purity of the style in which it was designed. Whether this was tile result of a most unhappy misconception, or a want of knowledge of the laws of colour and how to apply them, it is difficult to say. Probably it was a little of both. But whatever the catise may have been, the result was, that for many generations, architecture and colour were divorced. Precedent, that fickle and tincertain mistress, was dragged from Egypt, Greece and Rome to prove that colour was shunned by the ancient architects in their work, and that they depended entirely upon the proportion of their buildings, and the elegance of their detail and ornament for the matchless beauty which they possessed.

Still the eyes of men looked for something more than form, (however perfect) and light and shade, (however well disposed), and some restless spirits examined and analyzed the ancient

precedents until they discovered and established beyond a doubt, that color was applied, and that extensively, to architecture, by all the nations of antiquity. The anti colorists had omitted to reckon with Father Time, who, though he had not altogether destroyed the buildings of the ancients, had almost wholly obliterated the colour with which they had adorned them. Further investigation has shown that the combination of form and colour was well understood and practiced by every ancient people who have made their mark upon the world by the excellence of their architecture. And this is the more remarkable particularly in regard to the three nations mentioned, when we consider the care which they must have bestowed upon every detail of their structures. For we cannot but be impressed with their exquisite beauty if we see them only in photograph or in drawings in black and white. Add to this the colouring which architects of such perfect taste would apply to their buildings, and if from the meager basis which time has left us, we can re-animate them, we should have before us the most perfect examples of architecture.

Following the ancient and natural lines, the Byzantian and Renaissance architects gave great prominence to color in their work. In many instances (particularly in Italy) they sacrificed architecture to such an extent that it became a sort of framework for mural painting and decoration. But, on the whole, their work was done in such good taste, that the defects in architectural detail were atoned for in the beauty of the coloring, and so, philosophically, it has been allowed to pass. Such an apology, however, would not hold good at the present day. There were thousands of excuses which could be given for the delinquencies of that time, which cannot, in fairness, he put forward now. We accept what they did, in good faith, based on the knowledge they possessed. Future ages will expect the same of us We have all their work before us as examples to follow or shun, and we shall act foolishly if we do not profit by them.

In mediaeval times the architects followed in the same lines as their predecessors. It is true (all honor to them for it) they returned to the ancient practice of giving prominence to form. But they did not neglect the application of colour. They applied it to their columns and roofs, to their wall spaces and to their windows. Crude in many cases, no doubt, broken necked and out of joint are many of their figures. But the effort was there, and the aspiration which in such case covers a multitude of sins.

It is since the middle ages that the unfortunate divorce of colour from architecture has taken place Various attempts have been made of late years to effect a reconciliation In view of the fact that they were formerly wedded, and that they have never separated of their own desire, and that there is still, as there always has been, a strong affinity between them, it is surely the duty of all architects to bring them together again to live in harmony with each other. There are many reasons why this should he done in Canada, and many opportunities for doing it. one reason may be sufficient. In the sunny countries of Italy and Greece they enhanced the beauty of their otherwise beautiful

