<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE Committee of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>appointed to recommend to the City Council required amendments to the Toronto Building By-law, have completed their work The Committee have given their most careful consideration to the subject, and have presented to the Council a draft by-law embodying what they believe to be necessary. The matter will shortly receive consideration at the hands of the Council, The 0. A. A., as well as the Special Committee who have had the matter in hand, have rendered a valuable service which the Council and public should not fail to recognize.



We regret to learn that the exhibition of architectural drawings tinder the exclusive direction of the O.A.A., which it was announced in our March issue would form a distinctive feature of the sixteenth annual exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy, will have to be foregone. As the result, it is said, of representations on the part of some of its members, the Academy has seen fit to withdraw its permission to allow the architectural drawings to occupy a separate room at the Exhibition and to be hung under the direction of a special committee appointed by the 0. A. A. This decision will to a large extent destroy the advantage which it was hoped might accrue to Canadian architects as the result of public attention being drawn to a carefully arranged exhibit of their work.



IN the preparations now in progress for the erection of new buildings to take thc place of some of those destroyed in the recent Toronto fires, contractors have had their ingenuity exercised and been put to considerable expense in pulling down the brick walls, chimneys, etc., which stood their ground after the more combustible materials had been devoured by the flames. In this connection our attention has been drawn to the fact that when work of this character is required to be done in Great Britain, permission is asked by the authorities of the engineering schools to be allowed to perform it free of charge, as an object lesson for their students. The practice is one which might with advantage be adopted by Canadian engineering and technical schools. It would no doubt work to the benefit of both students and contractors.





THE <assoc>Society of Architects of London, </assoc>resolved at a general meeting held last October, that after the 1st of November next, applicants for membership in the Society be required to pass an examination to show proof of qualification. The subjects of the first examination are as follows : Architectural History : The general principles of the various styles and periods of architecture; their dates, mouldings and enrichments. Planning and design: The plan and design of some building, or portion of a building, with details to a larger scale. Construction Constructional details in all trades. Materials The properties, methods of working, manufacture, and the application of materials to building works. Specifications Preparation of specifications, and the examination of builder's accounts. Contracts:

The conditions pertaining to a building contract; the relative position of architect, client and contractor; and other questions of ordinary practice. Sanitary Science: To include water supply and drainage, ventilation, lighting and heating of buildings.



<article title="The Ontario Architects' Bill" author="">THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' BILL.



THE Act to amend the Ontario Architects' Act, prepared by the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects, and introduced at the recent session of the Ontario Legislature by Mr. <person>O. A. Howland</person>, M. P. P., has shared the lot of many other bills at the close of the session, in not having been reached for a second reading before the House prorogued. good progress, however, has been made by the Registrar, Mr. <person>W. A. Langton, </person>and his associates, who were engaged in promoting the bill, and it is hardly anticipating too much to say, that it stands a reasonable chance of becoming law at the next session of the legislature.

Much of the doubt that surrounded the measure has disappeared. Having passed the first reading, Mr. Langton and his committee pursued the intelligent and convincing policy of bringing the principles of the bill before leading members of the House. The general impression had been that the bill was of an exclusive and monopolistic character, but a careful study of

its main clauses sufficed to show, even leaders of the Patron Party, that there was nothing objectionable asked for in the bill. The important point aimed at is to make the degree of architect hold a parallel place with an M. A. or other educational degree.

There is nothing suggested that would bar out any person now practising architecture within the province from becoming a member of the Ontario Association of Architects were the new bill now law. On the contrary, it specially provides that any such person "by causing his name to be registered with the registrar of the Association within three months from the coming into force of this Act, and by paying to the registrar such fee as may be made payable in that behalf," becomes a registered architect under the proposed Act. The bill further provides, that in case any such person omits to be registered within the said

period of three months through absence, illness or inadvertence, he i~ not necessarily prevented from qualifying under the Act, but at the. discretion of the Council he may be admitted to enrollment

 1.



The impression has prevailed, in some circles, that were the Act to become law builders and others would be prevented from undertaking the execution of plans for those who might prefer to place the work with them, rather than with a registered architect. This is not the case. If any person thinks that an architects fees are too high, or for any other reason does not wish to engage his services to prepare plans for a building, the contractor who would construct the building can prepare the plans. This contractor may call himself by whatever name he likes, save that he does not announce himself as an architect. The thorough understanding of this clause by the members of the Legislature, and especially the Patrons, has done a good deal to remove objection to the bill. Some had thought that the farmer or other resident of a rural section, who might want a barn built, or farm house enlarged, would be compelled to engage the services of a registered architect, just as he would look to a barrister for a settlement of any point of litigation, or to a doctor to cure some of his bodily ailments.

Where objection has been taken to the bill in the past lest extortionate fees should be imposed by the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects, the bill as introduced by <person>Mr. Howland </person>leaves the fixing of the fees to the Lieutenant-Governor-in-Council, and shall be for the following purposes only

A—For registration as a student.

B —For each assignment of articles.

C—For each examination.

D For registration as an architect.

E—For the annual fees of members.

The qualification for registration is, that "the applicant shall be not less than twenty-one years of age and shall have served as a student not less than five years with a principal or principals entitled to registration under this Act or with any other principal or principals, whether resident or practising g in Canada or elsewhere, approved by the Council and shall have passed such qualifying examinations as may be required by this Act." The concession is made that any person that has graduated from the Ontario School of Practical Science shall be required to serve only three years as a student, one of which three years may be served during the vacation of the school.

The Act, in fact, is an educational measure, pure and simple, designed to raise the standard of the architectural profession. Architects' bills have sometimes been referred to as legislation for architects, rather than legislation for architecture. The present bill is one in which this criticism has no application. It is legislation for architecture—the cause, not the individua1. In an age when the disposition is towards scamp work, and a lack of thoroughness prevails to a large extent in all callings, architects and builders alike would, we fancy, welcome any measure that has for its purpose the raising of the standard of work done.





The local Board of Health of the city of Kingston urges the City Council to appoint an Inspector of Plumbing.

The Toronto Public Library has recently received through the Secretary of State, from H. H. the Maharajab of Jeypore, a set of seven volumes on Indian Architecture. The work will form a valuable addition to the already interesting collection of architectural books to he found in the Toronto library.

