<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="Electric Lighting for Large Buildings" author="Fraser, George White">ELECTRIC LIGHTING FOR LARGE BUILDINGS.
By <person>George White Fraser </person>E. E., Toronto 

THERE have, until recently, been but two general methods employed for the electric lighting of large buildings. 1. The renting of the current from the electric company operating a central station; and 2. The installation in the building itself, of a private generating plant. There can be no rules laid down, of general application, pointing to the adoption of either method preferentially to the other; every case must he considered on its merits. Such consideration will reduce the question to its lowest terms, viz., a comparison of the costs of lighting by the rival methods. The variable quantities that will enter into this redetection as governing factors are: The price of current supplied from the central station per lamp hotter, or per kilowatt hour on the one hand, and on the other, the cost of generating the current required in the building, using a private generating plant. This latter cost will be the total of such items as coal and water, etc., engineers salary, little repairs, depreciation of plant and interest on capital expended in purchase of machinery, etc.
It is evident that local data will greatly influence the selection of method. For instance, a building full of dingy offices, and employing already an engineer and using quantities of steam, for heating, might very reasonably be expected to effect an economy in lighting by using a private engine or dynamo while a church using a number of lights periodically, would not. These are, of course, extreme cases, illustrations merely of the general principle, but it is a great mistake to assume in all cases, that because there is a central station operating, it must be better and cheaper to rent current instead of generating it.
The object of this article is to introduce to the owners and designers of large buildings a modification of each of the two general methods described above, that have the merit of presenting very interesting features from an engineering point of view, and of promising well from that of the owner.
The first modification is the size of a gas engine instead of a steam engine, to run a dynamo in a private installation. This plan presents many very advantageous features. No boiler is required, with its coal dust, dirt, and chance of explosion. Less ground space is taken up. Gas engines are very largely used in Europe, and in the States for working dynamos, and many of them are absolutely guaranteed to use only 15 cubic feet of gas per horse power per hour. In connection with this, there is a very interesting and suggestive calculation easily made. Thus:-One thousand cubic feet of gas in Toronto costs the consumer $1.10. for lighting purposes, and 900 for power and heating purposes. If burnt in a 5 foot burner, this thousand feet will give 3200 candle power hours. If consumed in a gas engine requiring 23 feet per horse power per hour, this 1,000 feet will give 40 horse power hours. These 40 H P. H., if used to run a dynamo, assuming 75% electrical efficiency and 4 watt lamps, will give 5584 candle power hours. The Toronto incandescent Light Co. sells current at the net rate of 6 cents per i6o candle power hours, barring special arrangements.
Reducing these prices down to their equivalents per 1,000 candle power hours, gives:
Gas in burner	costs, 34.375 cents per 1,000 c. p. h.
Gas Engine and Dynamo "	16 177 "	"
Tor. Inc. Co.	37.500	" """

Now, one i6 candle power incandescent lamp burning for 62 1/2 hours is equivalent to 1,000 c. p. h., so it can be seen how, in a large building requiring extensive illumination, it may very easily be actually less expensive to run a private dynamo, operated by a gas engine, than to rent either gas or current. So far, there is a difference, in favor of the gas engine, of over 100 per cent., but no account has yet been taken of two considerable items, salary of attendant, and interest and depreciation. These will of course greatly increase the cost as calculated above, but to what extent depends entirely on the size of the installation there seems to be, however, a considerable margin to come and go on.
The second modification is the use of a storage battery located in the building, and kept constantly charged by wire from the central station. I am aware that the advantages of this plan are open to criticism, and would have to be the result of
special arrangements with the central station. I am also aware that "Central Station Management" as understood in most Canadian stations, except the really large ones, is not the science that it has become in the States and Europe, and that as a fact, so little attention has been given to its study, that managers do actually not know those conditions of operation which are 'productive of best financial results to themselves. At the same time I am convinced that a little persevering effort on the part of interested persons would bring about a state of affairs favorable to the economical operation of the modification I have just suggested.
The position may he briefly and clearly described thus -The best and most, paying load for a central station is a constant one, one that doesn't jump from o at 5 o'clock p.m. to 300 H. P. at 8 p. in., but that remains fairly steady all the time. This is just the very kind of load that a storage battery gives, and moreover, it presents another very attractive feature to the central station as follows: A building is wired for say 500 lights it will use these 300 lights all at the same time two or three times a year, hut the machinery in the central station has got to have e this 500 light capacity consuming interest and suffering depreciation all the year round, although it earns money only three or four times a year. A storage battery, however, that can be charged at the late of 20 amperes continuously, will give e out when required  the whole current for the 500 lights, and keep them going for four or five e hours. Thus the central station will only have to provide generating machinery sufficient for 20 amperes, which will be earning money all the time instead of sufficient for 500 amperes which will he idle most of the time. Consequently it is to the obvious interest of the central station to encourage the use of the battery, and in order to do so it will lower price of current. A very well known authority on electric matters, has stated that it would pay central stations to sell current (for use with storage battery) at 4 cents per kilowatt hour in order to get the constant load that is so advantageous. This figure is equivalent to 16 cents per 1000 candle power hours and to this must again he added interest of and depreciation on accumulators. Here again particular conditions will affect the total per 1000 c. p. h., hut as in the former modification a considerable margin is left. I have no doubt, that central stations would see the advantage of lowering their rates on such loads, if the case were properly presented, and advantage to both parties would result.
There being no particular installation to study, it is impossible to he other than general in this article it was intended merely to point out to parties having large buildings to light, or to supply elevators for, that there are several ways of doing it, each of which is best only tinder certain favorable conditions, while under different conditions it should give place to some more efficient method, the actually best method being determined only after due consideration of the peculiar conditions.
<article title="Bribes to Architects" author="">BRIBES TO	ARCHITECTS.

THE <assoc>Southern Chapter of Architects, </assoc>at its last convention, adopted the following resolutions
WHEREAS, Thc architect is in effect the trustee or agent of his client, and in that capacity shall endeavor to serve the client to the best of his ability, and to secure for him (the client) the full value received of the work under his charge ; and
WHEREAS, It has been suggested to this convention that some material men have been tendering to architects commissions to secure the sale of their materials, the acceptance of which is contrary to our code of professional ethics therefore, lie it
Resolved, That we the Southern Chapter of Architects, condemn such methods as dishonorable and to be discouraged by all legal and honorable means.
We further consider all material men and others, resorting to such methods, as unworthy to hold business relations with members of this Chapter.
Resolved, That after the board of directors shall have received sufficient proof of such practices, or attempts, it shall notify the secretary, giving hum the names of time parties transgressing, which names the secretary shall there upon transmit to each members of this Chapter. Be it further
Resolved, That these resolutions be published, printed and distributed for the general information of material men, architects and the public at large.

