<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



buildings by the application of colour to them. The sun shines on these countries from January to December, giving them changes of natural raiment only varied in beauty from one season to another. One would imagine that buildings devoid of colour would be suitable in such places. But the luxuriant colouring of nature has created in them a demand for colour everywhere. Then the supply is provided for the demand. The clays and marbles of Italy are ready to hand, and by skillful application, their structures lose all their strength or purpose but gain much in their appearance and grace.

We cannot speak of our country as Sunny Canada, but we can hazard an opinion that there are few countries in the world of such varied colouring as our own. It is true we have not continual summer. But when summer is here it is brilliant and our fall is so rich in colour, that it seems as if nature would provide us then with beauty enough to last us through our long, cold and colorless winter.

If the people in the sunny southern climes find pleasure in colouring their buildings, is it likely that the people of the frozen north will take less pleasure in the relief which colour will afford them ? This is not likely. But the people will never take the initiative. It is for architects to do that. It is true that something has been done in this direction of late years, but it has been in such a hesitating, imbecile way that ii is scarcely noticeable

In applying colour to our buildings, however, it is necessary to say that, externally at least, the colony should be constructive. And, so far as this is concerned, we are happily circumstance in Canada. We have within our Dominion almost every variety of granite, marble, stone and clay to provide us with the means of applying colour to our buildings in the most artistic and, at the same time, constructive manner. It may be, however, that our architects have not given this matter that amount of study which the subject merits. Appearances have that look about them. If, however, architects would consider that colour is one of the essential details of their profession a very few years would make a wondrous change in the tone and character of our buildings.



















































In a heating apparatus, a fire pot, an upper grate surface supported therein, means to shake said upper grate surface in sections, a series of independent pockets depending from said upper grate surface, a pocket support, a series of lower grate surfaces in the said pockets, and a common axis connecting said lower grate surfaces in series, whereby they may be rocked. In a grate of the class described, the combination with upper and lower grate surfaces, of pockets depending from thc former and inclosing the latter, the upwardly and outwardly inclined, baffle surfaces on the sides of the said pockets to deflect the air or gases rising between the same away from the side walls of the pockets at the tops of the latter.



No. 47,891. for a machine for cutting coal stone, etc.. to <person>Thomas Heppell</person>, <building>Leafield House, </building>Chesterle street, <person>William Patterson </person>and <person>John George Patterson</person>, of Hardwicke Terrace, Gateshead, Durham, Eng. The following illustrations and statement of claim will serve to explain the invention

In a machine for cutting coal, stone and similar hard substances, the combination with a backstay B. pivoted to a suitable trolley, the means for lock-

ing the said backstay in its working position, of the cutter-bar A, mounted in bearings A1 and A2, on the inner end of the backstay, and a sliding bearing K, at the outer end of the backstay, cams R, R1, on the inner end of the said cutter-bar, a fixed pin S1, out the said backstay engaging the





































said cams, a convey or chain or debris-removing apparatus carried on wheels journalized in the said backstay at M, M, and means for revolving the said cutter-bar and wheels carrying the said debris-removing apparatus.



No. 47,940, for a window frame and sash, to <person>Charles Day Morson</person>, Park Hill Ont. The accompanying illustration and statement of claim will serve to explain the invention



1st The combination with the window frame, having parallel tongues G, at the sides, and a tongue at the top and sill, of the upper and lower sliding sashes C, D, having grooves at the side edges and at the top and bottom, and receiving Said tongues. 2nd. The combination of the upper and lower sliding sashes, the meeting rail of the upper sash provided with a metal strip or tongue M, fitted into a groove in the meeting-rail of the lower sash. 3rd. The caskets K, secured to the window frame intervening the parallel tongues E, and opposite to the ends of the meeting rails of the sashes.

No. 48,037. for metallic roofing tile, to Ephraini Benj. Repp. Washington, Col. The accompanying illustration and statement of claim serve to explain the invention



















































An approximately rectangular roofing tile having cut away sides 1 find 2, and provided with a rib 9, at one side 2, and an upward projecting flange 8, at its side ', having holes 17 and 18 at the lower ends of the cut-away sides 1 and 2, and provided with points 19 and 20, at its central lower end. having a nail-hole 24. at the apex of a rib running along one side of the tile, and a raised portion 26, to accommodate the head of nail passed through a similarly situated nail-hole, of an under tile, having ribs to and 11 and flanges on the upper sides 4 and 5, said ribs and flanges meeting each other at their outer extremities.

