<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Students' Department" author="">STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.



AN AUSTRALIAN EXAMINATION PAPER.

THE following papers were set for the last associateship ex animation of the <assoc>Royal Victorian Institute of Architects</assoc>

STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE.



1.	Name the five orders of Classical Architecture, and give their principal proportions and leading features, and illustrate the descriptions with sketches.

2.	Explain and illustrate by sketches the meaning of the following terms Billet, cortile, fleche loggia, carona, telamones, systile, sgraffito.

3.	Give briefly the leading characteristics as to plan, construction and ornament of the Greek, Roman, Romanesque and Gothic periods, and give rough sketches.

4.	Write a brief description of two of the following buildings, giving the style and dates and names of their architects Church of St. Vitale at Ravenna, Cathedral of Pisa, Cathedral at Florence, Library of St. Mark's at Venice.

5.	Write a short description of one only of the following buildings Salisbury Cathedral, Henry VII. Chapel, Westminster.

6.	Sketch the differences in plan and section between the Basilican form of churches and the Gothic cathedrals of the late twelfth century.

7.	Give a short account of some building designed by Palladio, Inigo Jones and Philibert De Lorme.

8.	Name a typical Romanesque church in Germany or France, its date and particular features.

9.	Name some representative French cathedral and describe

it.



10.	As to the accompanying ten photographs, give in each case (a) the style, (b) the county or locality, (c) the order, period or century, (d) explain upon what details of feeling you base your opinion, (e) if you recognize the building, give what particulars you can in addition.

MOULDINGS, FEATURES AND ORNAMENT.



1.	Drawn to a scale of 1/2 in. to 1 ft. a Greek Ionic column showing cap and base, lower diameter to be 3ft.

2.	Drawn to a scale of 1/2 in. to 1 ft., the entablature carried by column above, and write against the various portions thereof the name each bears.

3.	Describe the use of the human figure as a decorative feature in Creek buildings. and name the parts of a building in which such decoration was usually put.

4.	What are the leading characteristics of Romanesque mouldings, and from what sources are they derived? Illustrate with sketches to large scale.

5.	Describe and illustrate by sketches to large scale the following terms Gargoyle, flehe, battlement, dormer, finial, sedilia, machicolation, peristyle, crochet and balflower.

6.	A doorway is to be formed in a stone wall 3ft. thick, the opening to he 10 ft. wide, drawn to scale of 1 in. to 1 ft. the arch mould and plan of jamb (a) in the thirteenth-century Gothic style. (b) in the fifteenth-century Gothic style.

7.	Sketch a Gothic buttress, also a flying buttress, and describe the origin and use of the latter. State the period which your sketches represent.

SHORING AND SANITARY SCIENCE.



1.	It is proposed to convert the front of the warehouse, shown in drawings A, into a shop, and to put a cellar extending back 24ft. and the full width of the building and 10 ft. high from floor to ceiling. Describe in order each operation necessary to carry out this work, and illustrate by pencil sketches to scale.

2.	When rain-water from the roofs has to be conveyed to the sewers, what precautions must be taken to prevent egress of drain air from the door pipes in very dry weather?

3.	As to water pipes Describe and sketch some of the best types, and state their relative e advantages and disadvantages.

4.	How are autocratic tic flushes produced? Describe and sketch some of the apparatus and state under what circumstances their employment is necessary or advisable.

5.	What is meant by the term "seal"? What should he the amount? How is it liable to be diminished? How can the latter be avoided? Give rough sketches.

6.	Fig. 6 shows a plan of a building with stables at rear, and

the w.c's., sinks, bath, &c., are marked. Sketch on the plan the various drains, waste-traps, &c., you would adopt, and describe and sketch the various fittings, connections, &c.

7.	As to underground tanks, what special precautions must be taken in their construction and in the arrangements of supplies and overflows to avoid pollution of the water.



USEFUL HINTS.

It takes 813 1/2 cubic feet of air to weigh as much as one cubic foot of water. If 813 1/2 cubic feet were compressed into the space of one cubic foot, its weight would be about the same as an equal volume of water.

Radiant heat passes through moderate thickness of air and gas without suffering an appreciable loss or heating them. When a polished surface receives a ray of heat, it absorbs a portion of it and reflects the rest. The quantity of heat absorbed by the body from its surface is the measure of its reflecting power.

Admirable results may be obtained in interior decoration by confining the colors to creamy browns and relieving the color with gold. For instance Ceiling, white with a touch of cream ; paper, rich cream ground and open floral design with gold ; as bold a frieze as the height of the room permits and woodwork also in creams, with t he styles and rails. of course, much darker than the panels. A room decorated in this way presents a warm and charming effect that would be admired by nineteen out of twenty people of good taste.

In estimating temperatures under conditions where the thermometer is not suitable, such as in the uptake, of breaching, of a boiler, says the Master Steam Fitter, the following list of melting points of metals may be of assistance Plumber's solder, two parts lead, one part tin, melts at 440 degrees ; tin melts at 428 degrees; lead melts at 612 degrees; zinc at 793 degrees. It will be noticed that the addition of tin has a peculiar effect in reducing the melting point of the alloy below the temperature at which either of the component metals melt. With fine solder, which is one part lead and one part tin, melts at 370 degrees.

The manner in which mosaics are now made for decorative purposes is quite different from the elaborate system used by the ancients, which consisted in fixing the tesserate one by one on the cement previously applied on the wall. The modern method of the Venetian school consists in executing the mosaics in the workshop, by having the tesserae fixed with common paste on the section of the cartoon assigned to each workman. When all the parts of the mosaic are complete, they are put together on the floor or on a special wooden frame. The mosaic, which is then a perfect representation of the original cartoon, is again divided into sections on the reverse side, marked with a progressive number and carefully packed to be sent off to the place for which it is intended. The surface of the wall where the mosaic is to be fixed is then covered with cement, into which the sections of the mosaic are uniformly pressed, according to their numbers and the key-plan supplied to the fixers. When the cement has hardened, the paper on which the tesserae have been pasted is gently taken off, and the faithful copy of the original cartoon is again exhibited on the right side.



<article title="A Glass Era" author="">A GLASS ERA.

GLASS is a material whose astonishing possibilities we are only beginning to realize. Great progress in its manufacture has been made in the last ten or twelve years, blowing by compressed air having greatly increased the quantity and variety of the work that can be produced, while improved methods of moulding have made possible castings of large size. Large glass pipe, unaffected by the soil and having the strength of cast iron, is now turned out in considerable quantities. The material can also be made into plain and ornamental bricks, chimneys, furniture, and even tapestries and complete houses.

<person>M. Henrivaux, </person>an enthusiastic French manufacturer, proposes to exhibit a glass house of novel design at the Paris Exposition of 1900. An iron skeleton will be erected, on which will be placed slabs of glass in such a manner as to form a double wall, in the interior of which hot air will be circulated in winter, and compressed air—which will cool the walls- in summer.

