<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



be commenced until the winter was well advanced, and the outlook for enclosing thc roof seemed distant and discouraging. When thc twelfth storey was reached a temporary roof was deemed necessary for the protection from rain and snow of all the storeys below ; and such roof was constructed, and was of great help in removing all fear of damage to the finer grades of interior fittings.

 Immediately thereafter plastering was begun, temporary heat was supplied, windows enclosed, and a general advancement made towards the completion of the storeys below. There was no cessation, however, in building above this temporary roof. Fortunately the weather was propitious, causing but little delay. The building was permanently enclosed by the time severe weather set in. Then all the forces that could be brought to bear were employed in the supreme effort of getting the entire building in such condition that tenants could occupy on the first of May any rooms that they might choose. It was successful. It proved a good investment for the company, as the greater proportion of the offices rented were above the sixth storey.

To follow all the different trades and describe the various methods employed to force the work almost beyond the limit of human endurance would be an interesting story. Suffice it to say that to the layman there can be no realization of the vastness of the undertaking.

Take the laying-out of the engineers department—the boiler and engine, the electric and elevator plants, the plumbing and heating systems contained in a building of this magnitude, the decorative treatment of the interior, employing the carpenter and cabinet maker, plasterer, marble-worker and metal-worker (on stairs and elevator fronts), the mosaic and tile flooring, gas and electric fixtures for lighting, to say nothing of a more or less ornamental exterior and it seems hardly less than a miracle that all these different interests, all large because the building is large, could have worked harmoniously together, and achieved such satisfactory results in the period of eight months.

It might be asked, have manufacturers of building material kept up with the rapid advance in methods of handling, producing articles that will set more quickly, and reducing to the mini mum the danger of destruction, such as that from dampness proceeding from brick, plastering and concreting?

If the "drying Out" of a building could be reduced to a few weeks instead of months, the length of time required for its erection would not be so much a matter of uncertainty. Some thought has been given to the mixing and manufacture of plaster, the application of which is made more simple than formerly by certain quick-setting qualities which make it practicable to put on the wood trimming within a few days after a room is whitecoated.

There is yet room for improvement in the direction of freeing thc process of plastering from dampness, and rendering it less objectionable from the standpoint of cleanliness to those who must follow the plasterers. But there is one feature of the mason s work to which much attention has been paid during the past ten years, but seemingly not in the right direction for the difficulty remains although the material is harder. I refer to fireproof blocking used for partitions and flat arches between beams. The blocks designed for partitions are not of uniform size; therefore the surface of one side other partition becomes very irregular, as the mason lays tip one side to a line. The plasterer must even up with plaster, the thickness of which varies anywhere from half an inch to 1 1/2 inch. It cannot he expected that the shrinkage of plaster will be uniform, to say nothing of the danger of freezing when the work is done in thc winter months. Fireproofing of floors between beams consists usually of flat arches formed of terra-cotta blocks made hollow to secure lightness. These blocks do not make up a thickness equal to the depth of the beam, where the beam is more than 8 inches. They vary in depth according to the span between beams ; and where the beam is more than 8 inches there is a space above the arch to he filled, in order to meet the material of which the finished floor is composed. This space may he 4 inches, possibly 6 inches—sometimes more, sometimes less, according to the depth of beam. The concrete is generally composed of ashes and cement, especially when saving in weight is important.

Such a foundation is not of the substance required where there is a direct action thereon—as in the case of tile or mosaic floors s—proceeding from the heavy and constant traffic usual in

business buildings. Consequently such floors show the natural impact of the spongy concrete by numerous cracks, which, in the case of mosaic floors, can never be properly repaired.

This defect is not the only one of importance. A large percentage of the dampness usual in masonwork proceeds from this source. As this concreting is usually done just before the laying of the floors, it is quickly covered in, and dampness must pass through the wood-flooring in the process of drying-out. It is natural to suppose that kiln-dried lumber will absorb much of the dampness, and swell in consequence, so that afterward, when heat is turned on it will shrink and open at every joint. More thought should be paid to a remedy for this, which may properly be termed a defect. Arches could be made that would reduce the space referred to, thus removing an element which, although it may not materially retard quick building, causes much of the criticism on the defective work (so considered) now credited to rapid methods of building. Other features no doubt enter into this class of building to which attention might be directed with profit to the builder, but it is hardly possible to discuss them in detail here. The individual experiences of others would be interesting and profitable.

Without co-operation on the part of the builder the architect's suggestions are of no advantage, and the work lags in consequence. It is important, therefore, that none but the most reliable men should be selected to do the work. Thc architect, moreover, should make the selection, for if he is to come in for his share of censure in case of delay, it is better that he and his own men should wholly deserve it than that lie should suffer for mistakes over which he has had no control. Should the whole work pass into the control of one firm (usually masons), it should be an arrangement satisfactory to the architects.

The architects of the Manhattan Life Building, Messrs. <firm>Kimball & Thompson</firm>, were ably assisted throughout, and they take great pleasure in publicly acknowledging their indebtedness to the different firms who aided them to make so remarkable a record.

The secret of success always lies in constant, unremitting push in every department. Begin at the very beginning; an ounce of push at the start is worth a pound of push at the end. Start the trades whenever and wherever it is possible so to do, and keep up the tension ; then satisfactory results cannot fail to follow 











<article title="The Old Men's Refuge at Kamloops, B.C." author="">THE OLD MEN'S REFUGE AT KAMLOOPS B. C.

THE Old Men's Refuge at Kamloops, Vancouver, B. C., from plans by <person>R. Mackay Fripp</person>, F.R.I.B.A., sketch of which appeared in a recent issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, has all its shingles colored with Cabot's Creosote Shingle Stains. These stains are used extensively on the Pacific Coast, and have repeated there their continuous successes in the east.



Messrs. <person>Knows & Co., </person>of Avondale, have purchased for $10,000 from Messrs. <firm>Dill Bros., </firm>the plaster quarry at St. Croix, N. S.

The <firm>Beamsville Pressed Brick Company</firm>have recently been experimenting with a new brick machine, the invention of <person>Mr. Sims</person>, of Toronto. The machine is said to be capable of turning out from forty to fifty thousand bricks per day.

<person>S. A. Lazier & Sons, </person>of Belleville Ont._ have secured the sole right for Canada to rnanufacture the Norwich Folded Paper Floor Deafener, which has been extensively used by architects in the United States for building purposes with the most satisfactory results.

Mr. <person>H. J. Warsup</person>, Superintendent of the <firm>C. P. R. Cement Works </firm>at Vancouver, has recently experimented with British Columbia clay for the manufacture of cement, fire and building brick, etc. The experiments are said to have proved that in British Columbia there is to be found china and pottery clay in considerable quantities, and the necessary materials for the manufacture of plaster Paris, fire brick, building brick and cement.

The <firm>Montreal Quarry Co., Limited, </firm>which has recently been granted incorporation, propose to acquire certain quarries in St. Denis Ward, Montreal, and to carry on the business of quarrying and selling stone. The quarries are upwards of two million feet in extent, are already fully opened up and well-equipped with plant. From them has been taken a large amount of limestone Used in the public and domestic buildings in the city of Montreal. The provisional Board of Directors of the new company consist of Alderman <person>Peter Lyall</person>, <person>P. A. Peterson</person>, G.E., <person>D. G. McCaskill</person>, <person>W. G. Reid </person>and <person>George McDougall</person>.

