<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title="Codes of Ethics" author="">CODE OF ETHICS.



THE following code, which is in conformity with the best standards of practice, has been adopted by the <assoc>Boston Society of Architects</assoc>Section i. No member should enter into partnership, in any form or degree, with any builder, contractor or manufacturer.

Section 2. A member having any ownership in any building material, device or invention, proposed to be used on work for which he is architect, should inform his employer of the fact of such ownership.

Section 3 No member should be a party to a building contract except as "owner.



Section 4. No member should guarantee an estimate or contract by personal bond.

Section 5. It is unprofessional to offer drawings or other services on approval and without adequate pecuniary compensation.

Section 6. It is unprofessional to advertise in any other way than by a notice giving name, address, profession and office hours, and special branch (if such) of practice.

Section 7. It is unprofessional to make alterations of a building designed by another architect, within ten years of its completion, without ascertaining that the owner refuses to employ the original designer, or, in event of the property having changed hands, without due notice to thc said designer.

Section 8. It is unprofessional to attempt to supplant an architect after definite steps have been taken toward his employment.

Section 9. It is unprofessional for a member to criticize in the public prints the professional conduct or work of another architect, except over his own name or under the authority of a professional journal.

Section 10. It is unprofessional to furnish designs in competition for private work or for public work, unless for proper compensation, and unless a competent professional adviser is employed to draw up the ''conditions" and assist in the award.

Section 1 No member should submit drawings except as an original contributor in any duly instituted competition, or to secure any work for which such a competition remains undecided.

Section 12. The A. I. A. "schedule of charges" represents minimum rates for full, faithful and competent service. It is the duty of every architect to charge higher rates whenever the demand for his services will justify the increase, rather than to accept work to which he cannot give proper personal attention.

Section 13. No member shall compete in amount of commission or offer to work for less than another, in order to secure the work.

Section 14. It is unprofessional to enter into competition with or to consult with an architect who has been dishonorably expelled from thc

Institute or Society."

Section 15. The assumption of the title of "Architect" should be held to mean that the bearer has the professional knowledge and natural ability needed for thc proper invention, illustration and supervision of all building operations which be may undertake.

Section i6. A number should so conduct his practice as to forward the cause of professional education and render all possible help to juniors, draughtsmen and students.





<article title="The Planning of Small Houses" author="Newton, T.W.F.">THE PLANNING C)F SMALL HOUSES.*

By 'r. W. F. NEWTON.



IN planning a small house it should be our especial study to avoid waste of space, and yet insure general utility. There must be no long passages ; height must he kept down, and roofing as simple as possible. Breadth of effect must be studied rather than prettiness and ornament, as in this class of work there is no money to spare for either; all must be simple. One can hardly do better than conceive one's design on the lines of the old cottages in the immediate neighborhood, as they will invariably suggest much in the way of simple planning, detail, and construction. It cannot in this connection be too clearly laid down that passage must be reduced to a minimum ; this class of house cannot afford that 10 per cent. of its cost should be spent in passage. In large houses it is generally unavoidable but in small houses it can be so curtailed as to be practically nil.

The ground plan is the key to all the rest; if that be bad, as a rule all is bad ; but it must be worked out by a careful consideration of the needs of the first floor. The front entrance should be fairly imposing, the door of ample width, with an inviting a]r about it. If it be a little lower than the usually given proportions, so much the better, as it will apparently increase the width. It is well either to have a porch or pent, or to recess the door, to afford shelter for anyone waiting to be admitted.

Care should be taken that the front door be not too much raked by the principal windows. The door should open into a small lobby or outer porch, this in its turn should have a small cloakroom or recess for coats and hats. Three feet by three feet will hold a considerable quantity of these, and the general tidiness of the hall is thus preserved. Following this lobby an arched opening should give into a small ball of about 9 ft. by 12. Th]s hall-sitting room, if carefully planned so that it may be shut off from the stairs and kitchens, will give quite a useful apartment. To secure this object it is advisable to have all the doors on one side, that the remainder may be free from traffic. An inglenook, if it can be arranged or a corner fireplace will add to the picture sequences of this cozy room. The angle should always be low, never more than 6 ft. 6 in. or 7 ft., and a deep beam with a wide shelf over. An internal treatment of bricks gives a solid air of comfort, and wide benches at the sides add to this. The usual long passage hall is so much waste space, and quite useless as a room of any sort ; neither can it be warmed. With this and the well of the stairs a current of cold air is generated which is drawn into the rooms every time the door is opened. If the stairs be shut off by a swing-door or a curtained arch, and a good fireplace given to the hall, an air of warmth and comfort is secured and greater privacy gained to the house, as the inmates may pass up and down unobserved from the hall.

The dining-room, if possible, should have an eastern aspect, aad if it can also have a south light so much the better. The morning sun is always valuable in the dining-room in a house of this type, as it serves also as the breakfast-room, and the dinner is usually in the evening when the lamps are lighted. The chief points to be considered in this room are width, which should not be 1ess than 13 ft. and ease of service to the kitchen and pantries

—a small serving hatch from the litter serves a good deal of needless traffic. The fireplace is best at one end and the door at the other, at right angles to the fine c. A long, low window, with a seat recessed, and a simple beamed ceiling should make a comfortable and useful room.

The drawing room, being more for afternoon and evening use, should face south to west. Here, I think, a square room is to be preferred say 34 ft. by 14 ft. with bays and angle, and a plain ribbed plaster ceiling. '1'here is a tendency to make anglenooks long, narrow, and high ; this is out of character with the old traditions, as all old ones are just the reverse in every particular.

The kitchen should be of fair size, and the light preferably on the north or east side. 50 that the midday sun may not add to the heat. The windows should be at right angles to the fire, so that the light on the range may be unobstructed. The larder should have a similar aspect, and may open out of the scullery. The pantry is most useful near the dining room for easy service. The scullery should have sink and copper on the same side, under the window, and out of the draught of the door if possible; there should be two rows of 6 in. white tiles round the sink. The trades entrance and yard should be well away from the front door, and the space for coal and wood should be under cover and enclosed from the back porch. XV. c. and asphalt are best distinct from the porch, and thc former should not, as is too often the case lead out of the scullery. A small tool-house is useful for tools, stores of potatoes, etc. A good height for downstairs rooms is 9 ft.

The first floor is gained by a light, easy, and wide staircase, alike convenient for all parts of the house, and the space underneath may be utilized for pantry or way to small cellar. The staircase, both up and down should be well lighted, and the landing so planned as to give easy access to four or five bedrooms, bath-room, box-room and w. c. Of the bedrooms, two should be of good size, and two or three smaller. A large bathroom with hot closet for airing linen is a great convenience; the shelves should be of open battens so that the heat may ascend. It is best to arrange the bath-rooms and w. c. over the scullery and outbuildings ; by this means the circulation from the kitchen boiler is kept short, and breakage, should they unfortunately occur, do not cause so much damage.

The bedrooms must be arranged with an idea as to the position of the bed, so that it may be shielded from the draught, and give a view of the fire to anyone in bed. Strong light opposite the bed is to be avoided. The roof can be started at 7 ft. and go off to 9 ft. in the center.

