<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Hamilton: the Arts and Crafts Association" author="">HAMLTON

THE ARTS AND CRAFTS

ASSOCIATION.



THE second Exhibition under the auspices of the above Association opened in the rooms of the Association on the 13th instant, and will continue until the 24th inst. The success which attended the first Exhibition held by the Association last year encouraged the management to repeat the effort and endeavor if possible to make the Exhibition an annual one. It is learned that a number of very interesting exhibits have been sent in for the present exhibition, including some of the best paintings exhibited at the Royal Canadian Academy Exhibition in Toronto last month, and the affair promises to be even more successful than the one held last year. The Association is doing excellent work, and is deserving of every encouragement at the hands of the citizens. It is one of the few institutions of the kind in Canada that have achieved satisfactory measure of success, and should therefore be an object of pride to the city in which it is located



The Association was originally founded in October, 1885, by a contribution of $50 each from fifty individual citizens who felt an interest in matters artistic, and in the improvement of handicraft on the part of mechanics and amateurs. The Association is held in high esteem by the artisan classes, inasmuch as it aims to enhance artistic skill and to insure public recognition to the artisan who produces meritorious work. At the Exhibitions of the Association the name of the artisan takes precedence of that of the firm with which he may be employed in connection with any exhibit of his work. This is a distinct departure from the method pursued at the various industrial exhibitions held throughout the Dominion. At these the name of the artisan is conspicuous by its absence. All exhibits are made in the name of the manufacturer, and no recognition whatever is given the skill of the artisan. The result of the different method pursued by the <assoc>Arts and Crafts Association, Hamilton </assoc>has been to stimulate artisans in various lines of manufacture in this city to put forth their highest skill, knowing that their name and work would









































have to bear public criticism. The tendency has been towards bettering the position of the painstaking and skilful workman, while employers vie with one another in exhibiting the products of their manufactories and the skill of their workmen, and the public are educated to know and appreciate a good article, so that the result from every point of view is most gratifying.

During the past winter the students in attendance at the classes of

the Association have not only had the benefit of trained instructors, but have listened at intervals to papers by practical men on such subjects as ''Stained Glass," ''The History of Architecture," "Wood Carving," "Furniture," etc. The subjects taught may be classed under the following heads :—Freehand, model, crayon, geometric, architectural, mechanical, perspective and memory drawing; shading, painting (oil and water color) from copies, casts and nature: painting portraits from life; modeling in clay or wax; woodcarving; art needlework ; casting; etching on copper ; engraving; lithography ; pen drawing for illustration ; designing, as required for all industrial pursuits ; practical plane, solid and descriptive geometry; architecture and engineering, with subsections of the same.

Students are privileged to work in the school seven or eight hours daily under an instructor who sees that no time is wasted, and can compete in about twenty-five sections, or study for medals and certificates granted by the Education Department of Ontario. A Sketching Club is organized during the summer vacation, each member paying a small entrance fee. The total amount of these fees, less postage, etc., is refunded to the members in the form of prizes. There is also in connection with the School an Art Literary Society. The efficiency of the





























































School may in some measure be judged by the fact that in the competition for scholarship at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, in Paris, whereat hundreds of the best students from all parts of the world competed, Mr. <person>John Lyle</person>, a late student of this school, took the third place in the art subjects, and fifth place in modeling in clay, and gained his admission to what is considered the most advanced art academy known.

Mr. <person>S. John Ireland</person>, the Principal of the School, is exceptionally well qualified for the position he occupies, having had an unusually varied experience in the art and technical schools of England. It is a rare thing indeed to find a man who, like Mr. Ireland, has a practical knowledge of subjects so widely different from one another as watercolor drawing and machine design. Mr. Ireland is enthusiastically interested in the work in which he is engaged, and can he depended on to bring the efficiency of the school up to the highest possible point compatible with the means and appliances at his disposal.

There is one feature in connection with the institution which is open to criticism. The work of die students is judged by the Education Department of Ontario, which exercises control over the so-called "Government Art Schools " of the Province. If I am rightly informed, the names of the persons appointed to judge the merits of the work of the students are not disclosed, and there is no guarantee to the public that they are qualified for their duties. This fact has a tendency to weaken public confidence in the work of these institutions, and to limit the attendance and ambition of students. It is well-known fact that the gentleman under whose control these art schools are placed has had no training for the position, and this fact has greatly retarded their success. If it is the intention of the Government to continued the yearly grants to these schools, they would do well to place them under. control of a thoroughly qualified superintendent, and appoint, equally well qualified per. sons, whose names should be given to the public; to pass judgment on the merits of the pupils.

In the Architect AND Builder for June some details will be

