<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN AND BUILDER



what greater injustice and indignity architects must be asked to submit themselves, before they will consider the time has come to call a halt. We are glad to see that at least one member of the profession on the Pacific Coast has unmistakably shown that he considers the time has already arrived. Every reputable member of the profession who desires to maintain his own self respect, the esteem of his professional brethren and the welfare of the profession, should fall into line.



NEGOTIATIONS have been in progress since the first of the present month between the <assoc>Toronto Builders' Exchange</assoc>, representing the master builders of the city, and the masons', bricklayers' and laborers' unions, with the object of endeavoring to arrive at a satisfactory understanding with regard to the rate of wages to be paid now that the five years agreement between these bodies has expired. A number of conferences have been held and an agreement has been reached as between the Exchange and the Laborers' Union, under which the rate of wages will be reduced by about 20 per cent., or from twenty-one cents to eighteen cents per hour. It is understood that the master builders have expressed their willingness to come to an agreement on the same basis with the bricklayers' and masons' unions. Indeed we have been informed that the delegates appointed by .these unions to negotiate with the master builders have reported in favor of an agreement on these terms, but their report has thus tar not been ratified by the unions. It is to be hoped that the unions will see the advisability of acting on the advice of their delegates in this matter. If the laborers' union, which is least able to bear a reduction in wages, sees the necessity for such reduction, there is the more reason why thc better paid trades should fall into line. It is scarcely necessary for us to point out that during the last three or four years the stagnant conditions prevailing in the building trades have borne heavily upon employers and employees alike. The former have found it extremely difficult to secure contracts, and the competition has been such that in order to secure work, contracts have had to be taken at very unprofitable figures. The employees have suffered from lack of employment, but when employed, they were paid the same rate of wages as in prosperous times. The employers have therefore been under the double disadvantage of having little to do, and of being compelled to pay high wages on such work as they could secure, while being at the same time forced by the keenness of competition to take contracts at unprofitable prices. In view of these circumstances, it would be most unwise for the unions to endeavor to maintain the rate of wages which prevailed under the recent agreement. Everything except labor has been forced down in price. The manufacturer and supply merchant have alike been compelled to cut prices, until it is estimated that prices of materials to-day are from twenty to thirty per cent. lower than five years ago. The unions should take a common sense view of the situation, and agree at once to accept, say a reduction of twenty per cent. We cannot imagine that they will he so blind to their own interests as to attempt to enforce payment of the present rate of wages. The result of such action would be to negative the benefits which are in prospect for both employers and employees from the improved conditions which are now commencing to be felt. It should be remembered that the price of labor is governed to a considerable extent by local conditions. What these conditions have been in the city of Toronto it is not necessary to describe. So far as the master builders are concerned, while they are firm in their determination not to renew an agreement on the basis of the one which has recently expired, they have shown their desire to meet the employees on any fair and reasonable ground. The settlement of the matter not" rests with the unions, as their acceptance of the twenty per cent. reduction agreed to by the laborers' union will adjust matters for the present year at least. We do not believe that the master builders will be willing to again enter into a long term agreement, as their experience under the last one clearly demonstrated that the advantage of such an agreement is largely on the side of the employee. As has been pointed out, the employers were forced by this agreement to pay a much higher rate of wages than the conditions warranted. A point which should be guarded in any new agreement which may be entered into is, that the unions should bind themselves to expel any member of their organization who shall undertake contracts on his own account, and thus enter into competition with

the legitimate master builder. It is understood that this is an evil from which the employers have suffered to a considerable extent during the recent depression.



<article title="The Royal Canadian Academy Exhibition" author="">THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY EXHIBITION.

THE architectural section of this exhibition has for the first time formed an important part of the exhibition. Even so, the profession is not widely enough represented. The drawings are nearly all by a few well-known Toronto men. Of members of the Ontario Association not residing in Toronto, there is but one exhibitor of original design, Mr. Fred. Henry, of London, and a couple of English sketches by Mr. <person>W. L. Munro </person>of Hamilton. Outside of the Ontario Association, there are but three exhibitors :Mr. <person>W. C. Harris</person>, of Charlottetown, P. E. I.; Mr. <person>A. T. Taylor</person>, of Montreal, and Messrs. <firm>Clift & Pope, </firm>of Montreal, who sent in a set of competition drawings which, contrary to the rules of the exhibition, were unframed, and were hung only at the request of the Ontario Association.

It can hardly be said, that the greater part of the drawings exhibited were exhibition drawings at all. They seemed to be, for the most part, office perspectives, made at any time in the last few years to show clients how their work would look, or to give the boys in the office practice. We would be the last to advocate a practice of misspending time in making pretty drawings of buildings, but on a special occasion of this kind, which is intended to appeal to the general public, who only understand a picturesque representation, a little of the spirit of the shop window architect, would have been in order. Canadian architects are always threatened by the idea that important work is best entrusted to an American architect from a 1arger city than Toronto, and it would be serviceable to the profession to make a good show occasionally, such as the public can understand. It is, however, apparent from this exhibition, that the important work which is being done now is in the hands of Canadian architects.

The largest piece of work is the <building>Brockville Lunatic Asylum</building>, designed by <person>Mr. Tully, </person>and recently completed. The perspective is on so small a scale that it needs a little calculation to convince the mind of its real extent, which must be at least 1,000 feet in length. There is, of course, repetition of pavilions, but the variable remainder is still of great extent. Mr. Tully also exhibits the original perspective of Trinity College—an old fashioned sepia drawing—and thus brings together what was probably his first and his most recent, though we hope not his last, great work. In the drawing of Trinity there appears a stone parapet wall to the ten ace which was not executed, unfortunately it seems to us; the decisive base thus given to the building would have contributed greatly to its dignity. It is always difficult to have an adjunct of that kind executed at once, unless there is a consideration of pure utility to recommend it, and they appear to have been contented with a grass embankment at Trinity.

Next in size come the competition drawings of Messrs. <person>Siddall & Baker </person>and Mr. <person>J. F. Brown</person>, for the Legislative Buildings of Victoria, B. C. It is impossible to criticize these buildings fairly without the plans, but the plans would probably justify us in a suspicion of over windowing in parts. Mr. Brown's use of Romanesque forms is original and interesting, and without any of the brutal quality which, as in the case of the <building>Ontario Parliament Buildings</building>, is so often associated with that style. Of other large work, Messrs. <firm>Strickland & Symon's</firm>new <building>Union Station, Toronto</building>, has already appeared in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, is now sufficiently near completion to be a familiar object to Torontonians. It is modeled on an American type exemplified by the Illinois Central Station, at Chicago, but is a better design, and has had the peculiar difficulty of amalgamation with the 01(1 station, a difficulty which with that proceeding from the different levels, appears to have been skillfully met. The drawing by <person>D. A. Gregg</person>, about 3 X 5 feet in dimensions is a model of clear, serviceable perspective rendering, and should be studied by draughtsinen.

<person>Mr. Lennox </person>design for the proposed new hotel, the next large piece of work, is also a beautiful drawing—indeed the drawing itself has so much claim to be considered as a work of art, that the tendency is to consider it apart from the design, and turning to Mr. Greggs plain rendering of the Union Station which hangs next on the wall, one is compelled to admit

