<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



given of thc Hamilton Arts and Crafts Association Exhibition now in progress.

<article title="Architects' Grievances" author="">ARCHITECTS' GRIEVANCES.

Thc local architects are complaining of the increased competition to which they are being subjected by builders. In most cities of Canada it is understood that the preparation of architectural plans and designs is finding its way more and more into the hands of properly trained architects, but in this city the opposite seems to he the case the disposition of owners of property seems to be to dispense with the services of an architect in the belief that by so doing his fees can he saved. It is well known to those familiar with the subject, that the cheapest work often proves to be the dearest in the end, but most persons look only to the present advantage. The peculiar condition prevails in this city of builders entering into competition wherever possible with architects, and at the same time where the latter have work to he done, expecting the privilege of tendering upon it. An instance is cited in which an architect prepared designs for a building, and after calling for tenders was compelled by the owner to modify them in order to reduce the cost—again called for tenders with the result that the cost was declared to be still too high, and finally had the work taken out of his hands entirely and turned over to a builder. These are the kind of things with which Hamilton architect are contending at present, and some of them are in consequence feeling far from satisfied with their lot.





<article title="Legal" author="">LEGAL.



THE case of the <firm>Royal Electric Co. </firm>v. <firm>Wand, and Wand</firm>, Plaintiff in Warranty, v. Walbank, decided in the Montreal courts recently, is one in which architects and contractors will doubtless feel an interest

On the 17th April. 1889, a contract was entered into by which the principal defendant Wand, undertook to build a brick chimney for the electric station of the principal plaintiff, at a fixed price of $3,300 and according to certain drawings and specifications made by the defendant in warranty (who as architect was to be the depositary thereof) in a good workmanlike and substantial manner, to his satisfaction and under his direction. in May  1893 he principal plaintiff instituted an action against the contractor, alleging in effect that the contractor had not built the chimney according to the rules of art, and that by reason of defects in its construction it had deteriorated to such an extent that it had been condemned by the city Building Inspector and by other skilled persons, who were of opinion that it would have to be partly demolished and reconstructed on a different plan; that in consequence it was taken down to the point indicated in the report of these experts, and recortstructel according to their advice, at a cost of $1,116, apart from the experts' fees, which amounted to a further sum of $165, making altogether $1,281.04. By the present action in warranty the plaintiff in warranty alleged in effect that he was riot responsible to the principal plaintiff in the present suit, but if there was any responsibility, the same must fall upon the defendant in warranty as architect ; that the plaintiff in warranty, as contractor, hail carried out the drawings, plans and specifications with great care and in a workmanlike manner, with the best of materials, to the satisfaction of the architect, and that if any damages had arisen they had been caused by the faulty plans of the architect, and the responsibility must fall upon him. The defendant in warranty pleaded, first, a demurrer which was dismissed. Secondly, a plea to the merits, alleging in effect that the plans and specifications were correct and sufficient according to the rules of art in every respect, and the defects in the chimney were due to the fact that the contractor did not follow the plan nor carry out the specification provided for his guidance in certain respects pointed out in the plea. The plaintiff in warranty answered saying that he conformed to the plans and specifications, and to the instructions he received from the defendant it warranty, and that the work was done under his supervision. The principal defendant pleaded to the principal action, stating in effect what he had alleged in his action in warranty. The principal action was tried alone, and the principal defendant was condemned to pay the principal plaintiff the sum of $1,281.04, representing the cost of taking down and rebuilding the chimney according to the report of the experts. The court held that the plaintiff in warranty had failed to prove the material allegations of his declaration, and particularly that he constructed the chimney in question according to the drawings and specifications of the defendant in warranty, or that the damages resulting front the manner in which the chimney was built were caused by any defect in the drawings or specifications. The court held that the drawings and specifications were correct and sufficient and in accordance with the rules of art ; that there was nothing unusual about them, or there would have been no difficulty in constructing the chimney in question in accordance therewith, and that, in fact, numerous chimneys had been constructed according to specifications substantially the same. The court further held that the plaintiff had departed from the drawings and specifications in several important and material respects. Instead of the inner wall or core of the chimney being carried up to the point indicated On the plan, and there united with the outer wall. it was carried up and united with the outer wall about 16 feet higher at the spring of the arches, and it was proved that this was the cause of the weakness of the chimney, rind that the chief failure and defect in the chimney occurred at the place where the plaintiff united the wall, contrary to the defendants plan. There was also a defect as to the holes for ventilation. The plaintiff in warranty should have consulted with the defendant in warranty, and followed his instructions

if he did not fully comprehend the specifications. The weight of evidence went to establish that the damage to the chimney was not caused by wind pressure, but by the expansion of air, and that what contributed most to the cause of damage was the carrying up of the inner wall, and the failure to provide proper ventilation and to properly bond the chimney as required by the specifications. Upon the whole, the court came to the conclude on that the action of the plaintiff in warranty must be dismissed,





<article title="The Competition Evil" author="">THE COMPETITION EVIL.



WE have received from Mr. <person>E. Mallandaine</person>, architect, Victoria, B. C., the following copy of a notice which recently appeared in the Pacific Builder, of Portland, Ore., and of a letter with reference thereto addressed by him to the Board of Supervisors

NOTICE TO ARCHITECTS 

The board of supervisors of the county of Santa Cruz, state of California, ask for plaits and specifications in detail for a county courthouse to be built on the lot owned by the county situated on the corner of Pacific avenue and Cooper street in the city of Santa Cruz. Two plans are asked for, one for art iron and steel fire-proof building, and the other a brick and stone combination. The building to consist of two storeys, and to be designed to provide for a courtroom and other rooms for offices for all the county officials, as well as a room for the hoard of supervisors, save and except an office for the county recorder, together with vaults for the county treasurer and county clerk, the necessary toilet rooms and other accessories to a building of that description. The cost of said building not to exceed $40,000. Plans and specifications will he received up to April 22, at to a. m Each plan must be accompanied by a certified cheek for five per cent. of the estimated cost conditioned that the architect whose plans are accepted will give good and sufficient bond that the cost of erecting said building shall nor exceed the cost mentioned in his plans and specifications. All plans must be in black and white and addressed to the clerk of the board. The board reserves the right to reject arty or all plans and specifications submitted. <person>E. Martin</person>, clerk.

(copy)

VICTORIA, B. C., April 13th 1895

The Board of Supervisors for the County of Santa Cruz, Cal.

Ed. Martin. Secy.



Sirs, s—The unmitigated insult to the profession at large set forth in your Notice to Architects,' (Pacific Builder) causes rue to write and ask which of the two parties is more fit for Stockton—the one who drew up the notice or the lunatic at large who would act on it. The unblushing effrontery displayed is only equaled by the ignorance shown of all professional, riot to say. business dealing.

I am Sirs, &c.,

Edw. MALLANDAINE Architect.



In placing the above material at our disposal, Mr. Mallandaine remarks that "it will show that at least one architect is to be found who can resent an insult to the profession."



Mr. <person>Theophile Girouard</person>, St. Catharines, Out., has patented an exterior finish for frame structures.

The <firm>Albert Mfg. Co., of Hillsborough, N. B., </firm>are making large shipments of their goods to Ontario.

The <firm>Garney Stove & Range Co., </firm>limited, is applying for incorporation in Manitoba, with a capital stock of $50,000.

A handsomely printed and elaborately illustrated catalogue has been issued by Messrs. <firm>A. B, Ormsby & Co., </firm>126 Queen St. east, Toronto, descriptive of their metal ceiling, wall decorations, etc.

The <firm>Metallic Roofing Co. </firm>of Toronto have issued a neat catalogue for 1895, illustrating their various brands of roofing, sheeting, corrugated iron, etc. Several illustrations of buildings on which their goods have been used are also published.

A sample of pure limestone from a quarry which is about to he opened at Lake Manitoba, is being exhibited at Winnipeg. The quarry is about 56 mites from Winnipeg. The stone will he conveyed by barges to Westbourne The material is said to he very easy to work, and that on this account it will be able to compete with Selkirk sand-stone.

An order has been given by the Courts for the winding up of the <firm>British Columbia Pottery & Terra-Cotta Co., Limited. </firm>The company was incorporated in September, 1890 with headquarters at Victoria, and a nominal capital of $60,000 divided into 1,000 shares of $60.00 each, of which about $36,000 have been allotted and paid up in full. A liquidator will be appointed.

Mr. <person>W. V. Williams</person>, of Winnipeg, is about to commence the manufacture of a patent pressed brick, manufactured by a chemical process, and which, he claims, will revolutionize the existing order of things in the building trades. The brick, which can be made in any colour is said to be suitable for a variety of purposes. and to he cheap and durable. A company to manufacture is said to be in process of formation.

