<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Survey of the Building Season" author="">SURVEY OF THE BUILDING SEASON.



Is work looking up? This is a question asked by most men engaged in the building trades, and with midsummer well nigh reached, it ought to be possible to provide an intelligent answer In Toronto as an outcome of the great fires the early part of the year, a number of large buildings are under construction. Permits have been issued for the erection of the new store for <person>R. Simpson, </person>the Globe office, <building>McKinnon's wholesale warehouse</building>, <building>Rooney & CO.'s warehouse </building>and several other structures in the business districts of the city. The new Foresters' building is also a work of some magnitude, and it is being pushed forward with energy. These taken altogether will run the permits of 1895 into large figures. This work, however, acceptable as it is, is yet abnormal, and cannot he taken as representing a genuine revival in the building trades. Go outside of these contracts and the figures in Toronto will not total up very large. Few contracts have been let for house building. Drawings are completed for a number of private residences, and in some cases permits have been issued and the work commenced, but these are not sufficiently numerous to cut a large figure in any estimate of the building operations of the season. Briefly stated, it has to be admitted that the depression in the building trades that has been a feature for several years, since the days of the breaking of the real estate boom,. still continues.

Some factors that enter into building operations, if not new, are deserving of consideration. The recklessness that characterizes tendering for work this year is fully as manifest as in some of the worst years of the recent past. A study of the tenders that come in for almost any class of work, whether on a small scale, or some of the more extensive operations, is full of interest. On a contract running into a few thousand dollars, there will be sufficient difference between the highest and lowest renders to indicate that good judgment, much less business commonsense, has had little to do in the calculations. This is a condition that reacts upon everyone associated with building operations. The man who contracts to do a job at 25 per cent. less thin a profitable price must even up somewhere, or else the time will speedily come when he will count out, and creditors will suffer. As it is, building supply men have prices forced down to a figure that means no profit to them, and necessarily, wages must come down with other values. The architect suffers, for with every decrease in the estimated cost of building, his percentage experiences a decline. Of course, the argument is that if one man does not tender low, his neighbor will do so, and get the job. This explanation does not remedy the evil, and emphasizes the great need there is for men engaged in the building trades arriving at something like a sensible policy in placing tenders.

There is a lot of nonsense talked about the benefits that come to the masses when low values prevail. A study of economic laws and the lesson of careful observation is, that business thrives when prices are reasonably high, and t is when values have the life squeezed out of them, so to speak, that every individual in the commonwealth is a sufferer. Wheat at 500 a bushel may seem to mean cheap flour for the masses, but the past year's history of wheat in Canada runs parallel with a season of depression in which all classes have suffered. With this important article of consumption now doubled in value word conies that business is on the turn, values hardening in all important lines, wages being advanced, and good times returning. This hardening of values, that is reported in iron, steel, hides, wheat, and other products, unfortunately, does nut find any immediate placement in the building trades of Canada, though there is reason to believe, that in the near future, conditions will change here, as they are changing in the country to the south of us.

Prices for building material have seldom been more depressed than this season. To quote the words of a leading Toronto architect: "Bricks can be bought almost at one's Own price, stone is simply not in the calculation, so demoralized is trade in this line, Portland cements are certainly away down, sewer pipe is cheap enough to suit anyone, lumber is showing some tendency to advance, though current prices here have not changed much, iron and steel, being the only supplies that enter into building construction where prices are hardening."

The conditions that prevail in Toronto are in the main illustrative of the situation generally throughout the province, and other parts of the Dominion. London has been helped, as Toronto, by fire, and two leading churches, that were destroyed this year, are being replaced by new and handsome structures. With this exception, there is no building boom in the Forest City. Steady progress is being made in building lines in Hamilton, and the people of that city are satisfied with this growth, but no great things are to be reported from there. And so one might run through the leading cities and larger towns throughout the Dominion.

Building in Toronto will be helped later when the demand for habitable houses more nearly reaches the supply, and with a revival in general business, this day will not be very long postponed. In country towns and rural districts building this season is fully tip to, and probably, ahead of late years, many important buildings in the line of school houses, and other public institutions being in course of erection. Taking the Dominion over the season will, on the whole, maintain the average of recent years, with the outlook for the future improving. 



<article title="Water Hammer in Steam Pipes" author="">WATER HAMMER IN STEAM PIPES.



Recently numerous explosions of high-pressure steam pipes led a German engineer to call special attention to the great danger from water hammer. To prove this experiments were undertaken to show the high pressure in a pipe when water hammer occurs. A pipe 12 inches in diameter, 1/4-inch thick and 21 feet long, blank-flanged at one end, was partially filled with water, and at the other end steam supplied through a three-inch pipe. Three pressure gauges at equal distances were screwed to the pipe and one in the black flange. When steam of five atmospheres, 73 pounds per square inch, was admitted suddenly above the water, the pressure gauges indicated respectively pressures of 426 pounds 114 pounds, 199 pounds and 114 pounds per square inch, or nearly 30, 8, 14 and 8 atmospheres. When steam entered slowly again above the water, hardly any concussions and abnormal pressures were noticed. Steam was then admitted through a valve 2 inches in diameter, and the steam, at a pressure of atmospheres, now entered below the water. The concussion was so violent that the threads of four of the nuts were shorn off, the fourth gauge placed there was crushed, though the gauges were designed for a maximum pressure of 2,133 pounds per square inch, while the other gauges indicated pressures of 483, 385 and 923 pounds per square inch. The end of the pipe bulged considerably. On a new trial the first three gauges registered 313 pounds, 185 pounds and 853 pounds per square inch, the fourth, refitted, over 2,130 pounds; a rent of eight inches in length formed, starting about four inches from the far end. This damaged part was then cut off, the pipe closed again, and the water level lowered to 6 3/4 inches ; pressures of 498 pounds, 498 pounds and 853 pounds per square inch were then observed. The water level was then raised to inches and steam turned on again this time two bolts broke in the end plate, and fissures formed near the middle of the pipe. In all cases air and water were thrown out through the air and water outlets. This occurred always in sudden rushes, after an interval of 15 seconds, when steam was turned on fully, and of several up to four minutes, when the valve was only partially opened, to one-fifth in the last instance. Only part of the water was forced out; a minimum of 3 inches always remained in the pipe. The experiments prove that the blow did not begin before the steam had condensed and the water had acquired the respective temperature. The different indications of the gauges seem to show that the blow was propagated in waves, which affected the pressure gauges according to their positions. The maximum pressure observed was 30 times higher than that of the steam which caused the concussion. If we consider that the steam inlet had only one-thirtieth of the area of the steam pipe, that steam pressures of three times the intensity of those experimented with are actually used on shipboard, and that part of a pipe might, under circumstances, be entirely filled with water, we must admit that these lodgments of water may lead to most disastrous consequences. Engineer and Iron Trades Advertiser.



The corner stone of a new <building>Catholic church, Coboueg, Ont., </building>was laid on the 9th inst.

The <firm>Standard Drain Pipe Company</firm>, or St Johns, (Que., have elected the following officers: President, <person>W. C. Trotter</person>; Vice-President, Capt. <person>C. Coursol </person>Directors, <person>G. H. Balfour</person>, <person>T. H. Dunn</person>, <person>F. C. Henshaw</person>, and <person>J. T. Ross</person>.

