<doctype type="text">PROPOSED PALACE HOTEL FOR TORONTO.

Proposed <building>Palace Hotel, Toronto</building>

<article title="Proposed Palace Hotel for Toronto" author="">THE project, considerably talked of in recent years, to build a hotel on a palatial scale in Toronto, seems likely to develop, shortly, into a reality. A fortnight ago, Mr. <person>James Rothschild</person>, of New York, a large capitalist and owner of the new Majestic hotel in that city, visited Toronto, for the purpose of considering the advisability of building a hotel on a similar plan here. He is reported to have been well pleased with the outlook and intimated his willingness to put $400,000 into the project, providing certain local conditions are complied with.

Mr. <person>G. W. Yarker</person>, the well-known banker, is representing local interests in the project. A representative of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER had an interview with this gentleman some days ago. Whilst not prepared to say that the project is an absolute certainty, he intimated that everything was developing favorably, and that it was likely to take practical shape at an early date. Mr. Rothschild had gone carefully into the matter, studying the local situation, and was satisfied that the investment would prove a profitable one. The Ontario government has given Mr. Yarker the necessary assurance that the site, which has been selected, namely, the old Upper Canada College grounds, could be secured on conditions agreeable to Mr. Rothschild. It is expected that $200,000 of local capital would be subscribed, and that the city will grant certain privileges in the way of a favorable rate of taxation and low water rates.

The proposed building will be modeled after the Majestic, of New York. It is a twelve storey building, with six hundred rooms and two hundred and forty-five bath rooms. The Toronto hotel would be eight stories high, though covering a wider area of ground, with three hundred rooms and nearly two hundred bath rooms. In many respects, the Majestic planned on new and attractive lines. The rooms on each floor are arranged in suits, as well as single rooms. The idea is to cultivate, especially in the winter season, a family clientage. According to the plan proposed, a family may have its own suit of rooms, which will either be furnished by the hotel, or the guests themselves, and these are so arranged, as will be seen from an illustration of one floor of the Majestic, issued with this number of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, so that the utmost privacy and home-like features are secured, even to the private hall.

In Continental cities, particularly in France, it has become the custom with many of the better class of families to reside at hotels conducted on the plan of the Majestic, rather than keep house. And this custom has been taking a good foothold lately in United States cities, as is witnessed by the success of that now famous hostelry, the Waldorf in New York, built by the Astors, and the large share of business that has come to its latest rival, the Majestic, since its opening in October, 1894. What may be the result of any extensive change in the domestic life of Toronto, and its possible bearings on residental property, is, perhaps, a question that would come into consideration here. Mr. Yarker believes that the business the proposed hotel would gather around it would be very largely of its own creation and not interfere, to any material extent, with existing conditions. He said that the projectors would not look for business that would, at the present time, be going to other hotels, though he had to admit, that naturally, what might be termed the better class of guests would prefer a hotel such as that now under consideration, were it placed at their disposal.

The expectation is, that the new hotel would draw to Toronto tourists who to-day pass it by. With other citizens, Mr. Marker believes, there are few more attractive summer resorts than Toronto. "If," said he, "American families in large numbers will spend a month or more at a time at the Arlington at Cobourg, might we not expect a very marked influx of this kind of business to Toronto, with a hotel here built like the Majestic of New York."

The appointments of the proposed hotel throughout would be very attractive. There would be a banqueting hall on a scale of considerable magnificence and equal to every likely requirement of the largest conventions and public gatherings. A winter garden is a novel and beautiful feature of the Majestic, and this idea would be carried out in the new hotel. A garden in the courts and on the roof of the hotel would be another novelty. Here guests and their friends are supposed, when so inclined, to spend the evening and sit and sip at ice and enjoy the cool breezes of the lake, as in New York they do those of the Hudson or Central Park.

In answer to the enquiry, when it might be expected the new hotel would be completed, Mr. Yarker said it was hoped that arrangements would reach a point to permit of it being in readiness to receive the guests of the <assoc>British Association for the Advancement of Science, </assoc>which is to convene n Toronto in 1897. This would mean that arrangements would he well developed by the fall, so that plans could be prepared and building operations commenced in the early spring of 1896, if not before.

Mr. Yarker intimated that the drawings would probably be prepared by an American architect, and the work of construction placed tinder the superintendence of some well-known member of the profession in Canada. With an American capitalist largely interested in the project, and the new hotel to he modeled after an existing hostelry in New York, it is not unnatural that the employment of an American architect should be suggested. But there is another side to this matter. The proposed hotel is to be erected in a Canadian city. Substantial assistance is to he given by the provincial government, and favors are expected of the City Council, besides which not less than $200,000 of Canadian capital is likely to be subscribed. The work performed by Canadian architects is evidence that they are equal to the designing of such a building as that proposed; this being the case and all other things being equal, they should have the preference, and certainly an opportunity to prepare designs, if so desired. Another important consideration that should weigh in giving preference to Canadian architects, is the recommendations that are made as to the character of material that shall be used in the construction of the building. Canadian interests were prejudiced when an American architect was chosen to prepare designs for the Parliament buildings of the province. Within our own country will be found the men and the material, with few exceptions, to meet every requirement that will be called for in the proposed hotel project. We would not want to take narrow ground in this matter, but knowing what has been done in the past by Canadians, and the high position they hold in the architectural profession, what is asked is only fair and equitable.



<article title="Carleton Place Town Hall Competition" author="">CARLETON PLACE TOWN HALL COMPETITION.

Concerning the above competition, a correspondent writes the ARCHITECT AND BUII.DER as follows :—"An article stating that the tenders for the proposed new town hall and fire hall at <building>Carleton Place </building>all proved too high, that new tenders will likely be called for, has been going the rounds of the technical journals for the last two months or more. It has occurred to me that a statement of what has actually been done would he interesting to you and to the architects who sent in plans in competitions.

"In May 1894 an advertisement appeared in the CONTRACT RECORD calling for plans for a "town hall and engine house", apply to the town Clerk for particulars. Those who applied were told they wanted a building of a certain size and kind, to cost from $15,000 to $18,000 In all fourteen plans were received. The Council accepted <person>G. W. King </person>plan with an estimate of $19,500, and when tenders were called for, the lowest was $23,700. Alt tenders were rejected, as were also the plans. The Council then instructed Mr. King to prepare new plans on the lines of the former ones, but to cost not more than $18,000. These plans were received about a month ago, the estimate of cost being $18,000. At a meeting of the Council held a few days later the Council, in committee of the whole, rejected the plans. At a special meeting held about ten days after they acted as stated in the enclosed clipping.

"I would like the other twelve men who sent in plans to know he treatment they got at the hands of the Council."

The clipping enclosed in our correspondent's letter contains a report of a meeting of the Town Council of Carleton Place to consider the Town Hall project, at which the following resolution was adopted



"Moved by <person>Councillor McNie</person>, seconded by Deputy-<person>Reeve Moffat</person>, that he clerk he, and is hereby authorized to return the sketch plans and specifications now before the Council to the architect, Geo,. W. King, Toronto, instructing him to prepare the finished plans and specifications, which this Council will accept for lenders, as per agreement with architect, after the architect has made the following changes in the sketch plans and specifications: The external walls of building to be of stone throughout, and to he built three feet higher than called for on plans; these walls to be built below high water mark with large dimension stones full thickness of wall laid in cement. The main hall to have an elevated floor. The interior finish of ground floor hall, main hall and staircase, first floor, Mayor's room, committee room and clerk's office to be of black ash, instead of pine, as specified. And that the architect be asked to have these finished plans in the hands of the Council as soon as possible, so that tenders may be called for without much more delay.

