

<doctype type="text;plate">TESTS OF FIRE-PROOFING MATERIAL.

By invitation of The <firm>Rathbun Company</firm>, a number of architects, principally from Toronto, paid a visit on May 23rd to Deseronto, for the purpose of witnessing a series of tests of porous terra-cotta fire-proofing material, manufactured at the Rathbun works. In addition to witnessing these tests the visitors were invited to inspect the various departments of the Company's extensive business, but a single day was found to be insufficient for this purpose. The inspection was therefore confined to the woodworking shops, the terra-cotta and brick manufactory, and the Portland cement manufactory at <firm>Napanee Mills</firm>.

The wood-working factory was first visited, and awakened a great deal of interest. The principal product of this factory is sashes and doors, in addition to all kinds of interior finish. An extensive and growing export business is being done. It is noteworthy that the doors manufactured to meet the requirements of the English market are much inferior in workmanship and material to those manufactured for the home market. It is thus possible for the manufacturers to utilize to advantage in their foreign trade, material which would not be acceptable for the home market. The factory is equipped with the latest labor-saving machinery, and every device that would reduce the cost of production appears to have been utilized. On this point the remark of an architect may be mentioned, that labor-saving machinery is not only an important agent in reducing the cost of building, but also in curtailing architects' commissions. It was noticeable that notwithstanding the vanity of work being turned out, there was only one piece of work which was being manufactured by hand. This one exception consisted of a stair-rail of special design, which, of course, could not be made by machinery. In process of manufacture were some interior fittings for the <building>Congregational Church, St. John's, Newfoundland. </building>The interior of the factory was entirely free from dust, notwithstanding the large number of machines in operation. The dust from these machines is collected by fans and conveyed to the boiler room, where it is utilized as fuel.

The terra-cotta works, which were to be the scene of the tests, were next visited under the direction of <person>Mr. Rathbun, Jr. </person>Mr. <person>J. Hynes</person>, superintendent of the works, and Mr. M. <person>J. Butler</person>, the company's engineer. The building is 390 feet in length, with a wing 190 feet long, and contains 200,000 feet of drying floor surface. The products of this manufactory are porous terra-cotta for fire-proofing purposes, terra-cotta for ornamental purposes, and dry pressed brick. The clay from which

the porous terra-cotta is made is mixed with an equal part of saw-dust, the two materials being thoroughly ground together and afterwards passed down into the press. From one end of this machine is turned out porous terra-cotta arches, and from the other porous terra-cotta lining brick. The latter is dried quickly by means of a hot blast, while the former is elevated to the upper floors and air-dried to prevent cracking. This drying takes place in a temperature of 80 degrees, the temperature being, maintained by the air passing over steam coils in the lower part of the building. Upwards of a mile of steam piping is in use for this purpose. The drying process occupies from ten days to two weeks. From these drying floors the material goes to the kilns to be burned, In the kilns the saw-dust is burned out, leaving the remaining material porous and very light in weight. The combined capacity of the several kilns is 300,000 pieces. These kilns are constructed on the down-draft principle, and are fed from a number of small openings in the top. It is a rather remarkable fact that one of these kilns, constructed of common white brick, has stood unimpaired for nine years the tremendous heat which is employed for hardening the fire-proofing material. Its durability is supposed to be due



largely to the presence of fire-clay material in the brick. The process of burning in these kilns is such that a quantity of the material is constantly being perfected and removed, its place being taken by the unfinished product. The company keep constantly on hand a considerable quantity of material, so as to be in a position to fill orders promptly.

In another part of the building the visitors were shown the dry pressed brick in process of manufacture. The clay beds from which the brick is manufactured are located at Napanee. The clay, after being dried out and then ground to dust, so fine as to be capable of passing through the finest serve, is conducted to the press, where it is subjected to a pressure of 100 tons. The capacity of this department is 11,000 bricks per day. This department of the business, which was established only a year ago, is meeting with encouraging success.

The tests of the porous terra cotta fire-proofing for which the visitors had been invited, took place in the open yard of the works. A number of terra-cotta arches of various spans had been loaded with pressed brick for the occasion. It was the intention to add to these loads until the breaking strain should be reached, but it was found that time would not permit, and therefore the additional loading was confined to one arch of six inch end construction, having a span of five feet, and a distributed

