<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">	<assoc>PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS </assoc>



THE last of the monthly dinners for the season of 1894-5 of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was held in the Queen's Hotel in the 4th inst. This dinner was made on the occasion of welcoming hack to the city Mr<person>A. C. Hutchinson</person>, 1st Vice-President, after a four months tour in Europe. There was present Mr. <person>F. X. Berlinquet</person>, exPresident from Quebec, and a number of the members. Alter the dinner Mr. Hutchinson gave a brief outline of his trip, dwelling more particularly upon his impressions of the Ancient Greek, Byzantine and Mediaeval styles, as illustrated by buildings in Sicily. He also gave an account of revelations made by late excavations in the arena of the Coliseum and on the Palatine hill in Rome.



At the last meeting of the Council, held on the 11th instant, it was decided to hold the semi-annual examinations in Montreal on the 25th, 26th and 27th of July. Thirty days' notice will be required to be given the Secretary by intending candidates.

The following petition has been sent by the Council of the Association to the City Council

"We, thc Council and Members of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, residents of this city, humbly beg to memorialize the Mayor and City Council, to appoint an Art Standing Committee, to whom all matters relating to the beautifying and embellishment of our city would be referred for their consideration and opinion.

"At present, we believe, there is no special committee delegated to look after this particular object, and accordingly, monuments, statues and other erections are and have been permitted to be put up in our public squares, streets and gardens, that are neither beautiful or a credit to the city.

"Other cities have taken such a step, notably New York and Boston, and have appointed Art Standing Committees of men of acknowledged artistic experience to advise them in such matters.

"Recognizing that taste and a wise knowledge of art requires a special and long training, which it is not in the power of everyone to command, we feel that such an advisory committee would be of great assistance, not only to the city and citizens, but also to the Council as a body.

if this meets with approval, we would take the liberty of suggesting for your consideration, that this committee should consist of six members, all residents in the city of Montreal, and should include the Mayor and the City Surveyor or Engineer, and a representative from the following Associations :—The Royal Canadian Academy; the <assoc>Art Association of Montreal </assoc>the Association of Architects of the Province of Quebec and the Council of Arts and Manufactures, or such other recognized artistic body as may he selected.

"It is intended that these appointments be purely honorary and with no emoluments attached."



A new granite firm recently furmed in St. George, N. B , is composed of <person>Stephen Conley</person>, <person>Owen F. Bogue</person>, <person>James H. Frawley, </person><person>Caleb Hennessey</person>, <person>James R. O'Brien</person>, <person>Henry F. McDougall </person>and <person>Charles H. Lynott</person>.

The Winnipeg Public School Board propose introducing the best known system of heating and ventilation In several new schools to he erected, and with that object in view invite correspondence from parties dealing in same.

Messrs. <firm>Kelley and McCutcheon</firm>, two local contractors, have submitted a proposition to the Winnipeg City Council to put in a plant for the manufacture of vitrified brick fur paving purposes. A clay suitable for making bricks has been discovered within 150 miles of the city.



<article title="Students Department: Useful Hints" author="">STUDENTS DEPARTMENT

USEFUL HINTS.



IN some experiments conducted by the German government on steel and iron girders, the soft steel girder proved twenty-two per cent stronger than the iron girder. The strength of steel girders appeared to be about the same for the two flanges, if made alike in sections.

For filling up the pores of the wood before commencing to polish. For white wood, equal portions of whiting and plaster of Paris, thinned to a paste with turpentine and well into the grain of the wood If for mahogany, add rose pink, or whatever the color of the wood is, and dry color to match up to same.

	The following is recipe for paint for ships' bottoms	8 lbs. of resin,

1 1/2 lb. of "Cologne brown dry color," 15 oz. of shellac, 25 gills of spirits of wine, 6 gills of benzene, gill of toluence, and 10 drops of

pyridine. As a finishing coat, a mixture of paraffin wax and white lead "boiled together" is applied hot.

To make plaster medallions look like marble, take pure sweet milk, boil it, and skim it two or three times; put it on the face of the cast, and blow it evenly on all parts, taking care that it does not get on the edge or hack put it aside for two or three days, then put it in a shallow dish face up, and pour in oil of sweet almonds until it comes up to half or two-thirds of the edge of the cast. Be careful that none gets on the face. As the cast absorbs the oil put in more, until it is saturated. This makes the plaster perfectly transparent and of a beautiful colour. The milk forms a coat on the surface, which will bear washing.

The utilizing of waste materials in buildings is not always safe. According to the report of the Chief Inspector on <firm>Alkali Works, Scotland</firm>, one fatal accident has occurred at an alkali work at Irvine, owing to the use of tank-waste as a foundation or flooring, over which had been erected tanks for the condensation and storage of muriatic acid. This material consolidates into a hard mass, and is not infrequently used in alkali works for filling up hollow places and making good the ground level. It is hoped that the use of this material will be avoided in future in places where it is possible that acid liquors may come in contact with it, In the Irvine case a bricklayer, having to effect some repairs to pipes connected with the acid tanks, was overcome by a rush of spluttered hydrogen gas caused by an over flow of the muriatic acid on the bed of tank waste below. The bricklayer fell to the ground insensible and could not be restored.

Yellow pine can be stained to resemble oak in color by very simple means, but if it is intended that the figure should also be imitated, this will be found a more difficult task. A rich dark color can be gained by dissolving 2 lb. of patent size in one pint of water, add some brown umber to give a brown shade, apply while still hot with a brush, and wipe all surplus with a piece of rag. When dry smooth down with a piece of canvas or coarse rag, and fill up all nail holes, &c., with putty colored to match, then wipe over asphaltum dissolved in turps to gain the rich brown (1/4 lb. of asphalturn to I pint of turps). Allow this to stand till the next day to harden, then varnish with a good quality church varnish. Should it be desired to imitate the figure or grain as well as the color, satisfactory results may he attained by using sizes and ochre instead of umber, and when applying the asphaltum passing a steel graining comb when nearly set and picking out a few light places with a piece of rag slightly wet with turps and held in position over the thumb of the right hand.

It would appear that the external surface of concrete walls will be affected by the character of the timber employed for the temporary framing. In some military works by the United States engineers the plan originally followed was to build all the concrete work with frames of undressed spruce lumber, and then, on removal of the frames, to plaster the exposed surface with cement. This coat of plaster could not he made to adhere to the older work, which rapidly absorbed its moisture, weakening the bond between the two, which was destroyed by the first cold weather, when the coating cracked and dropped off, much to the detriment of the appearance of the work. There was, besides, no economy in the use of spruce lumber, which warped out of shape when subjected to the moisture of the concrete, and could seldom be used inure than once, and the plastering was very expensive. It was, therefore, decided to substitute framing made of first quality dressed white pine, grooved on both edges, and united by loose tongues of yellow pine, and to construct the masonry differently. That portion of the concrete next to the frame, 4 inches thick, was laid, and on the frames being removed, a rubbing with a float was sufficient to give a smooth surface to the face. The work was found to resist changes of temperature with out scaling or cracking.



The new <building>Wesley College building, Winnipeg </building>is approaching completion, the exterior work being sufficiently advanced to give some idea of its architectural beauty.

