<doctype type="text;plate">load to begin with of 630 pounds to the square foot. About an bour was occupied in loading up this arch, the visitors watching the proceeding with much interest, expecting as each additional layer of brick was placed on the arch that a deflection would be noticeable. Examinations were made at repeated intervals, but no deflection took place. After the load had reached 1,000 pounds to the square foot, with no more sign of breaking than at the commencement, the test was considered sufficient, and was not carried further. Details of the tests are as follows

10 inch Voussoir, 6 ft. span, distributed load, per sq. foot, 968 pounds.

9 inch End Construction, 6 ft. 6 in. span, distributed load, per sq. foot, 633 pounds.

8 inch Voussoir, 5 ft. 6 in. span, distributed load, per sq. foot,

666 pounds.

	8 inch End	construction	ft.;	form span	distributed load per

sq. foot, 799 pounds.

6 inch Voussoir, 5 ft. span, distributed load, per sq. foot, 612 pounds.

6 inch End Construction, 5 ft. span, distributed load, 612 pounds per sq. foot, 1000 pounds final load.

Since the date of the tests, the loads on the arches have been increased from 500 to 6oo pounds to the foot, and are still standing under that strain.

While this test was going on, another of a different character was being carried out a few yards distant. A building, 6 feet 9 inches by 4 feet two inches, by 4 feet 7 inches high, constructed of one-inch boards and lined with one and a half inch porous terra cotta, had been filled with combustible material, saturated with coal oil, and set on fire. The fire burned furiously for fifty minutes without injuring in any way the covering of the building. At the end of that time the fire was extinguished, and some pieces of the porous terra cotta were taken out and immersed in cold water. To the surprise of those who witnessed the test, these pieces of material did not show the slightest crack as the result of contact with the cold water, and nails were driven into them with the same result. It is estimated that a building lined with this material would prevent fire from spreading for at least twenty minutes, and usually this time would be sufficient to enable the firemen to obtain control.

Several of the architects who witnessed these tests and who had an opportunity of seeing the process of manufacture, expressed their regret that they had not known earlier the character of this material, as they had been importing more expensive and less efficient material for some of their buildings during the past two years.

After having partaken of luncheon, the company entered a

special car on the line of railway owned and operated by the Company, and were conveyed to <firm>Napanee Mills</firm>, where the cement works are situated. These works occupy two large stone buildings about 600 feet apart. They are operated by a 250 h. p. Wheelock engine. By means of a rope transmission device installed by the Dodge Pulley Co. of Toronto, 150 h. p. from this engine is transmitted to the other building, a distance, as already stated, of 600 feet. By means of this device a great saving in power is accomplished. Near these works are located the deposits of clay and marl from which the Portland cement is manufactured. The clay is peculiarly adapted for the purpose, being free from sand, while the only foreign ingredient in the marl consists of organic matter. The two materials are mixed in the proportion of one of clay to three of marl. They are thoroughly ground together into a homogeneous mass by means of a wet pan mixer. A sample of each lot of material is analyzed before leaving the mixer, to see that the proper proportions of materials are being maintained. Thus every ten barrels manufactured is checked, so that there is little opportunity for variation in quality of the manufactured product. From the mixer the material is carried up by a belt into the pug machine and from thence is loaded on cars and passes into the drying room, where it remains for twenty-four hours. From the drying room it goes to the kiln, and is subjected to a gradually Increasing heat, culminating in a temperature of 300 degrees Fahr. The resulting clinker has a specific gravity of 3.13 The material next passes through grinders and three or four pairs of rolls, and is finished on French buhr millstones, which give it a granular finish. The finished material leaves only one to two per cent. residue on a 10,000 mesh sieve. The material thus finished is put into barrels, being weighed separately from the barrel. 350 pounds of material is put in each barrel, so that a uniform quantity of cement is contained in each barrel irrespective of the weight of the barrel.

In connection with the works there is a testing laboratory. The cement is tested by being made into pats on glass, then put in damp air for three hours, then immersed in water for twenty-four hours at a temperature of 130 degrees Fahr. If no signs of blowing are apparent as the result of this test, the material is considered to be of satisfactory quality. Should defects show themselves, it is put back into the bin and allowed to slake off free lime. A briquette made two months previously was broken on the testing machine in the presence of the visitors at 620 pounds, and another, one month old, broke at 450 pounds to the square inch.

The company experienced a great deal of difficulty in the early stages of this enterprise, but have succeeded in so mastering the process of manufacture as to insure a uniformity satisfactory product. The superintendent of the works is Mr. <person>F. G. B. Allan</person>. The works have a capacity of 150 barrels per day.

