<doctype type="text;plate">RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS.



THE following patents have recently been granted to Canadian inventors —No. 48804, for a bath tub, to <person>George Booth, </person>Toronto, Ontario, Canada, 1st May, 1895; 6 years.

front and rear pulleys r and r', and wound around central pulleys r, which are secured at each end to the common spindle 13, the scale A held securely within the longitudinal recess a5, in any definite position by the adjusting screw a5, rotatabic bar journalized in the recess a3 and provided with longitudinal ratchet shaped notched strips and grooves longitudinally arranged, a catch tooth P depending from the rule and designed to engage with a notched strip of the bar when underneath the tooth, the scale marked collar 5 on the supporting spindle s, the pointer S', knob s2, toothed wheel s3, and dog s4. In a drawing table in combination a circular drawing board rotatably supported having a pointer on the edge of the board and a protractor arranged around half of the circumferential edge of the board, suitably divided and indexed Iron nought to ninety from the center outwardly to each end a spring clamp for holding the board in any desired position and a rule arranged to have a parallel movement to a straight line between thc ends of the protractor.

No. 48,883, for a domestic heating furnace, to <person>John Albert Crossman </person>and <person>John Alfred Laws</person>, both of Amherst, Nova Scotia, Canada, 8h May, 1895; 6 years.







A bath tub made in three sections, each section of which is composed of a sheet metal outer casing having an inner casing of copper, aluminum or other light, flexible material, and a lining of asbestos or other non-conducting material placed between the two casings substantially as and for the purpose specified.

No. 48,825, for a drawing table, to <person>Samuel John Laughlin </person>and <person>James

Hough</person>, both of Guelph, Ontario, Canada, 2nd May, 1895; 6 years.



The combination in a domestic heating furnace of the ash—pit C, with the

fire-pot d and the body E, the combination of the body E with the radiator

substantially as described.



No. 48,927, for a hot water boiler, to <person>John Galt</person>, Toronto, Ontario, Canada

13th May, 1895; 6 years.



The combination with a circular drawing board G, the arc-shaped clasps 0. pivoted at o, on the edge of the board and designed to fit between the bent retaining pin o' and the edge of the board over the turned down corner of the paper, a spindle H, journalized in the bars H, II, extending between thc central cross-bars A', A', and having a' square upper end extending into corresponding hole in the plate at the bottom of thc board, a pulley I, on the spindle h, guiding pulleys I on the spindle I' extending between the cross-bars, a chain secured to the pulley 1, and extending over the guiding pulleys I, I, the lower end of the chain being connected to the forward end of the pedals k, and the cross-bar K, secured to the lower portion of thc standard, and extending out each way, and having the pedals hinged to it, a catch g5 in its edge and means for rotating the table of stops adjustably held at each side, and within the sweep of the catch, the stops being located at approximately ninety degrees apart so as to permit of a ninety degrees swing to the board, screw pins I' extending through blocks 12, provided to adjust the stops to a nicety, a pivoted spring clamp secured at thc rear of the table and having its free end extending over the board, a screw pin extending from the top of the table through the clamp, and a pressure knob screwed upon the screw pin above the clamp. The combination with the table A, provided with cross-bars and pivotally supported upon the spindle B, having bearings beneath the cross-bar upon the upper enlarged end of the vertical single standard C, the standards D, D having cross-bars D', through which the standard C extends, the bracket d' forming part of thc cross-bar D', the bracket c forming part of the standard C, the screw spindle secured in the bracket D' and extending through thc bracket c, and provided with a hand wheel. the slotted stays F, F pivotally connected to the cross-bars A', and secured to the standards D, D by the thumb screw d, d, extending through the slots having the raised ends Aa and Ab and a circular opening a, and circular board G. rotatably supported within the opening and having its surface flush with the surface of its raised ends of thc rule P, extending across the board and raised ends and connected at both ends to cords by depending blocks and means whereby thc cords are given a uniformity of movement, so as to keep the rule when being moved parallel to the rear and front of the table, the cords being endless and extending around

In a hot-water boiler, a series of water sections, each of thc water sections provided with an upwardly curved lip extending into the outflow to prevent the upflow of the water, from the lower water sections, interfering with the outflow of the water from the said section, and provided with a downwardly curved lip extending into the inflow, to direct thc water from the inflow into the respective water section. A downward passage from the secondary chamber to the outlet to the chimney, a central partition separating the upward passage from thc downward passage, and thc outflow pipes connected to die topmost water section substantially as specified.





There is a tendency toward stronger colors in paperhanging's, says the New York Upholsterer. For several years the protest against the very delicate shades has been in progress, till now really dark colors can be used. This, of course, gives the decorator an opportunity to employ rich reds, vivid greens and glowing yellows. It gives him a better opportunity, also, to consider appropriateness in decoration. The rooms are different, and used for different purposes; hence, even in the cheap



styles of decoration, he may select colors, not simple tints, to suit Radical colors, even, are coming into vogue.

