<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE <assoc>Montreal Masters Plumbers' Association </assoc>have recently issued a circular to the trade, calling attention to the unsatisfactory conditions which prevail in the business as the result of master plumbers purchasing dire(:t from the manufacturers instead of from wholesale dealers and jobbers, and the manufacturers and dealers selling direct to the general public. As a means of bringing about a more satisfactory state of things, the trade are asked to conduct business in future on the lines laid down by the resolution on this subject, adopted recently by the National Plumbers' Association of the United States, known as the Baltimore Resolution.



A VISIT to the site of the new <building>Simpson building</building>, at the corner of Queen and Yonge St., Toronto, serves to impress one with the change which has taken place in the methods and materials employed in the erection of large buildings. This building will rest almost entirely on iron supports. Even if the footings, on which rest the supports, are of iron, instead of stone, as heretofore, wood, stone and brick will be conspicuous by their absence, at least in the exterior of the building. In looking at the many tons of structural iron assembled for use in this building, the writer was led to remark that as the result of the change from stone, brick and wood, to iron construction, manufacturers of structural iron must be reaping handsome profits. The architect to whom this remark was addressed replied that such was not the case, but that on the contrary the cutting of prices amongst manufacturers and dealers in this material had apparently been carried to an extent which left but little room for profit.



DEFECTIVE construction of chimneys has not a little to do with the unsatisfactory working of heating furnaces, and as a rule, fault is laid at the door of the furnace manufacturer instead of being placed at the designer or builder of the chimney with which the furnace is connected. The two faults most commonly found in chimneys are, interior irregularity and flues of too small diameter. It is surprising what a large proportion of chimneys are defective in these particulars, and as a consequence hundreds of tons of fuel are being consumed every year to no purpose. Thus the builder of a chimney who aims by putting in a small flue, to save a few dollars on the cost of construction, thereby entails upon the occupant of the home a large unnecessary yearly expenditure for wasted fuel, and injures the reputation of the manufacturer who supplies the heating system. Architects should take notice of this matter, and see that chimney flues are sufficiently large and that they are carried tip straight from bottom to top of the building.



THE Management Committee of the Public School Board of Toronto have under consideration the question of manual training. It is proposed that the forenoon of the last day of each week be set apart for the special study of subjects and designs in this branch ; that the scholars have worked assigned to them suitable for their capacity; and that courteous discussion over their work be permitted the pupils during their exercises. The subjects included under this head are: Drawing, modeling in clay, plaster, cardboard, wood, cloth, metal or any other suitable material. An not infrequent complaint against the school curriculum of the present day is that it covers too wide a field, and that pupils are being over educated in a direction that will render them little practical help in after life. To some extent, at least, there would seem to be reason in this charge. Where the future of the pupil is likely to run along professional lines it is important that there should be a breadth and comprehensiveness in the subjects studied. It is doubtful whether the man or woman, who will follow any of the leading professions, will not find help in almost any of the branches of study on the time table of the public and high schools of to-day. It is a different matter, when it will become necessary, either from choice or necessity, for the pupil to take up, what is sometimes termed, the more practical lines of work. And in the case of a large percentage of the pupils who attend the public schools it may be expected that they will, from natural bent, as the children of those engaged in mechanical pursuits, follow in these lines ; and where the professions are so terribly over-crowded we do not know but what this would be a wise course for others to pursue. Here the plan proposed by the School Board Management Committee would be exceedingly helpful, and if the success that

has attended the schools of technology in Toronto and other places in Canada, Great Britain and the United States is to be taken as a criterion there is good reason to suppose that the School Board are following along a line that would not alone be popular but productive of the most satisfactory results.



MANUFACTURERS of furnaces, radiators and heating supplies are said to be considering the advisability of increasing prices, in view of the heavy advances which have recently taken place in the price of raw material. As an illustration of how prices have advanced, it may be mentioned that within a very short period the price of pig iron advanced $3 per ton, and within a period of one month, manufacturers were notified of five successive increases in price of iron pipe. Galvanized iron is another article used in the construction of furnaces, the price of which has advanced fully 30 per cent. It is difficult to see how manufacturers can continue to sell at old prices under these greatly changed conditions. It is a well known fact, that last year the iron producing establishments sold material at a loss, and this led to a corresponding reduction by manufacturers. Now these conditions are entirely reversed, so far as the far mills are concerned ; instead of shutting down operations during the summer, as they have been accustomed to do, they find it necessary to run full time and over time, in order to meet the demands, stocks having been almost exhausted at the commencement of the present year. The sudden and large increase in the demands, and the impression which has got abroad that prices are on the up-grade, has created a sort of panicky feeling among buyers, which has resulted in forcing prices up to a point which possibly may not be long maintained.



SEVERAL protests have appeared in the London Timber Trades Journal—one by Mr. <person>Carl Zeidler, </person>recently of Toronto Junction, whose firm carried out the contract for interior woodwork in the <building>Ontario legislative buildings </building>—against the action of the architect for the new legislative building at Victoria, B. C., in awarding to a Chicago firm a large contract for oak lumber. Mr. Zeidler states that the specifications for the Toronto buildings called for Canadian lumber, just enough foreign timber being used to make a contrast, and adds that Canada has enough of its own timber to make the finest interior wood work without going out of the country. The Timber Trides Journal, in commenting on the matter, says: "There is as much sense in bringing oak from the east to use in any kind of a building on this coast, as there would be in bringing salt water from the Atlantic to Puget Sound to bathe in. Tacoma, Seattle and Portland have each paid heavily for imported stock to finish buildings that could as well have been completed with native lumber." Without professing to know anything about the circumstances of the present case, we are strong advocates of the use by Canadian architects of native materials, wherever these are to he had approaching in fitness and quality imported materials. On the same principle that Canadian architects object to commissions being given to foreign architects for the erection of buildings in Canada, the specifying of foreign materials in preference to native material by Canadian architects is an injustice.



<article title="Trade in Wood-working Lines" author="">TRADE IN WOOD-WORKING LINES.



A STUDY of the figures contained in the report of the Department of Trades and Commerce, for the fiscal year ended June 30th, 1894, now published, furnishes some suggestive thoughts as to the possibilities of extending Canadian trade in wood-working lines.

The export trade in doors, sashes and blinds during the past five years has grown at a satisfactory rate, the business for 1894 being more than double that of 1890. The figures are as follows:

1894, $158,196; 1893, $130,349 1892, $123,144 1891, $86,450



1890, $60,474. Let this increase continue in the same proportion for another five years, or why not at a greater ratio, and the trade will have assumed a very considerable size.

The difficult matter in building up an export trade is to obtain entry into foreign markets, but having done this then time will establish the merits of the goods imported. Furthermore, it take some years for manufacturers to ascertain what class of goods particular localities require, and this now done, the business in doors. sashes and blinds of Canadian manufacture ought

