<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.



COPY OF ORIGINAL DRAWING FOR THE ROOF OF <building>UNIVERSITY



CONVOCATION HALL,TORONTO</building>, SUBMITTED IN THE 0. A. A.



EXAMINATIONS BY <person>MELVILLE P. WHITE</person>, TORONTO.



ENTRANCE TO A HOUSE—<person>ERNEST WILBY</person>, ARCHITECT,



BUFFALO, N. V.



NEW <building>LIBRARY BUILDING, McGill UNIVERSITY</building>, MONTREAL—



<person>A. T. TAYLOR</person>, F.R.I.B.A., ARCHITECT.



Several exterior and interior views of the new library building in connection with McGill University, Montreal, are presented in this number. The building is one of many gifts presented to the university by Mr. <person>Peter Redpath</person>. The foundations were laid in the spring of 1892, and the completed structure formally opened by their Excellencies the governor-general of Canada and Countess of Aberdeen, on the 31st of October, 1893.

The construction is as nearly fire-proof as possible, and the stack room is entirely so. The whole of the main floor is of steel beams and porous terra cotta arching. The other floors and the roofs, where not of this material, are of solid oak

beams, and flooring on the slow combustion principle. The stairs are of iron and slate. Externally, the building is constructed of the Montreal limestone, of a white-grey color in dressed ashlar work, except the basement, which is of rock-faced ashlar. The roofs are of blue Rockland slates and copper. The doors are of polished oak with wrought-iron grille work and fittings. The style adopted is a free treatment of Romanesque, which lends itself to the requirements of such a building, as being at once dignified and yet picturesque. The tower rises to a height of about 90 feet. The salient points of the design are accentuated by stone carving, embracing Suitable subjects such as the symbolic figures of the four Evangelists, the College arms, the crest and motto of the donor of the Library. Convenience of arrangement and suitability for its purpose, combined with

substantiality and solidity of construction, were the desiderata; afterwards came in the elements of beauty, proportion and grace, in some measure all of which have been attained without the sacrifice of one to the other.

After much consideration, the architect adopted the "stack" system as the best arrangement for the books. Stacks were selected of the "Library Bureau"type, with uprights of grooved steel, in which bracket ends slide up and down, being fixed at the required height by a wedge easily adjustable. The pattern of the bracket ends was specially made for this library; the shelving is of polished oak. This stack room has four storeys, with straight stairs, and a lift for books ; on each storey there is a wide bay window, back and front, for special privileged readers, where they can consult any of the books on the spot, and not obstruct the passage ways between the books, In the future, when the stack room requires to be enlarged, these bays will form the center of the stack, and the accommodation will be thus nearly doubled.

In the basement or lower floor, which is entirely above ground

with the exception of a small portion on one side, five studies or seminary rooms are arranged for special studies, fitted up with tables, chairs, and hook-cases for books bearing upon these special subjects. These can be reached by a separate door from the campus, or by the main entrance. At the other end of the building is a wide entrance for the reception of boxes of books, which opens into the unpacking room. From here the books are then taken to the cataloguing room immediately above, by a lift in a small projecting wing in which also a staircase is arranged, for the exclusive use of the librarians. The rest of this floor is occupied by the caretaker's house, lavatories, heating chambers and coals.

On the main floor the principal feature is the great reading room, 110 feet long, 43 feet wide, and 44 feet high to the top of inner roof, with a high open timber roof having the hammer beams ornamented by carved heads of grotesque animals. At the further corners are lofty oriel windows with seats round same. In the center of the S. E. side is a recessed fireplace or inglenook, with a red stone mantel inside, having the following motto cut in relief in a panel "Cease not to learn until thou

cease to live." At the entrance to the inglenook is a large massive carved oak mantel-piece about 14 feet high, with the following quotation from the Proverbs, cut on the carved frieze "Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding." On the opposite side of the reading room is a lofty square recessed window with seats round. A large wide level gallery has been arranged at one end, which may be used for the display of rare illuminated books, manuscripts and missals in glass cases, and other purposes, and from which visitors can obtain a good view of the reading room, without disturbing the readers. Below this gallery, the Librarian's room and the cataloguing room are obtained, divided by an ornamental glass screen from the reading room. This is the working department of the building, where all the books are catalogued and

arranged; contiguous to this is the attendant's counter for the distribution of books, and from this is the entrance to the stack room already referred to, protected by steel fire-proof doors. Between the cataloguing room and the reading room are placed the Card Catalogue cases, opening on both sides, so that the cards may be placed in the drawers from the one side, and consulted by the readers from the other. The remainder of this floor is taken up by a well-lit room for periodicals, and by cloakrooms, In the tower is placed the staircase, opening into the entrance hall and into the reading room by ornamental arches. The vestibule and entrance hall have marble and oak dados respectively, and both have marble mosaic floors. There is also' a special Muniment vault for the care of precious books and muniments. On the upper floor, in addition to the gallery, are a Professors' room, and a large room or hall with a high ceiling for architectural casts, sculpture, etc. The fittings of the reading room are all of oak, of a substantial character and polished, the tables being arranged across the room so as to. have the light right and left. Round the walls are arranged

