<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="The Advisability of the Registration of Architects" author="">THE ADVISABILITY OF THE REGISTRATION OF



 ARCHITECTS.



WITHIN a short time I have heard read two suggestive papers upon the architecture of the past in America—one being merely a resume of the records of the <assoc>Boston Society of Architects </assoc>from its formation in 1867 ; the other an account of the methods of the layman in New England and probably elsewhere of obtaining architectural service in the early forties and fifties. The records of the society showed a small body of earnest men dealing with comparatively small things, that is to say, with things small as compared with the buildings of to-day; there was a freshness, a naivete, about these records that caused a smile upon the faces of the men who had made them thirty years ago in their youth, and who were sitting about the table as they were read. There was no sign of recognition from the public in them, no expressed hope that the society formed should be recognized as representing the acknowledged leadership of the profession in Massachusetts, only a desire for mutual support, interest and criticism, and incidentally for architectural welfare. The other paper told of the constant custom of clients who went to England, bought copies of one-eighth-scale drawings of actual houses which had been built by English architects, and had, on their return, houses built from these plans by local builders.

All this is not so very long ago ; in fact I can remember eighteen or twenty years ago that a building that cost $100,000 was considered quite exceptional in Boston at least, and until the great fire in Boston by far the largest amount of work done by the architects of that city was in suburban houses of small cost and in alterations of already existent buildings. The builder was a recognized individual as he still is; the architect was an occasional luxury. Under such circumstances it was not to be expected that he should be anything else. But with the growth of our cities, the concentration and increase of wealth, came requirements which the builder could not meet; and it was found that the architect was no longer a luxury, but a very earnest necessity.

Naturally as the demand for the services of the profession increased, coincidentally there appeared pretenders in its ranks; that is to say, there were plenty of men who neither had the adequate ability or sufficient application to thoroughly train themselves, who presumed to practice a profession which certainly required considerable study and attainments. Inasmuch as what services they had been able to give were quickly and cheaply prepared for, they were willing to perform them at a meager price, but what under the circumstances was more than ample compensation.

Architecture having a distinctly commercial side was to be done by the lowest bidders. Of this class of practitioners little need be 'said, except that they are a curse to any profession, but in addition to these there have been and still are a number of very worthy men who insist in making their livelihood by practicing a business under the name of art. This is legal enough,—no one can prevent it, no matter how much they may wish to do so,—and it occurs oftener from ignorance than from intention, but it nevertheless exists, and under what appear to be compensating conditions. As it happens, the man who makes an art into merely an artless business, either from the concentration of his thought upon one object, or by the very nature of his personality, is very apt to give the impression of being a so-called business man, and as such he appeals to business men and to their likes and dislikes, to their prejudices ; and architecture so called thrives under the conjunction of the "practical architect" and the "practical" man. It should not be understood that the business side of architecture can be neglected, but that it should occupy, both in the architect's and the client's mind, its relatively just position, that is, that it is the necessary method of action that makes architecture itself actual and not imaginary.

The architect, unlike the sculptor and the painter, is in some factors of his profession necessary to the public ; he is needed to carry out work which otherwise could not become existent; but on another side he is dependent upon the public for an opportunity to express himself. He occupies, therefore, the position of an executive who is limited in his action by the will of the sovereign people. In governments such a condition has proved satisfactory in proportion as both ruler and people are intelligent, In architecture it may be assumed, the result

would be the same. The object to be attained then is to insure that the architect shall be intelligent, to hope that the public may be.

The burden of the proof of intelligence and ability lies with the architect. His chief credential is not pre-eminence as a business man, or even as a constructor, but as an artist. He will be judged by the next generation by that credential, and by no other. He owes to his client that he shall honestly and conscientiously fulfil his desires as far as possible as to expenditure; and that his building shall be abiding he owes both to his client and himself; but both these facts will be ignored in some fifty years. The judgment of the future passed upon an architect will always be upon his work as an artist and upon nothing else, and his influence will be proportionate to his skill as an artist alone. But in the meantime that chief credential is ignored, and the public choose their architects indiscriminately, and in many cases ask no credentials whatever. As a result "fools have rushed in," and architecture, though in better favor since the World's Fair, is glanced at askance and not recognized by many people as a profession equal to that of law and of medicine.

With whom lies the fault? Certainly not with the public or clients, for they assume, with true business understanding, that to be called an architect implies a knowledge of architecture, just as to be known as a cobbler implies a knowledge of shoes. We cannot blame them for lack of discipline in their choice. How should they discriminate between men who are devotees of an art which requires long study for its attainment? Is it then a question of protecting ourselves against the pretenders in our ranks? This would seem to be an acknowledgment of weakness, of a callow state of affairs, which would defeat its own object. Surely the skilful man in any profession can take care of himself and afford to ignore inefficiency in others. If the public choose to be satisfied with worse than mediocrity, so much the worse for the public; why should we "fash" ourselves about it? But upon analysis the offence is greater than it first appears. Architecture is the most conspicuous of the arts, it is man's constant environment and as he is very susceptible to the influence of surroundings, architecture has much to do with his education. If the public insist on employing men calling themselves architects, but who put up buildings bad in plan, construction, and appearance, then the trained architects, as citizens, should insist upon it that such work is detrimental to the public taste, that it mocks architecture itself, and that it should not he permitted.

The surest way of eradicating an evil is to deprive it of opportunity of action. If it were possible to diminish the numbers of the inefficient amongst architects, there would be a very perceptible change in our buildings and cities. Apparently the only way in which to do this is to restrict the right to practise arch architecture to those who have gained such a right by certain attainment. The making of plans and being paid for them cannot be restricted, but certainly the architects themselves have the right to say who shall be considered their peers. Give a dog a bad name, etc., can be paraphrased by give a man a good name and crown him. If it is once an established fact that all architects are obliged to show certain ability before they can practice architecture, the public will be thankful for that amount of certainty. The public are very prone to accept any profession at its own valuation, provided it maintains its own standard of excellence as announced. What should that standard be, and how should it be maintained?

The professions of law and medicine have long since determined their own action. A lawyer must be a member of the bar of his country, and the physician must have received his degree from a medical school; the fact of being a member of the bar or an M.D. guaranteeing the public a degree of training in each. Both imply lectures attended and examinations passed. A very small proportion of the public fail to assure themselves of the standing of their doctor or lawyer before they employ him. The restriction has elevated the profession in the eyes of the public. Would not the same result follow in architecture? In one country, Austro-Hungary, architects are only allowed to practice after having passed certain examinations; elsewhere the same universal chance for charlatans occurs. It will be urged that the charlatan will always exist, which may be very true, but he will be forced to be a clever charlatan, and that is a great gain. It will be said that the American Institute

