<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN  ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



on the subject. Some years ago he was appointed Professor of Engineering in the University of Tokyo, Japan, but subsequently returned to the United States, where he now practices his profession. The bridge for which he has prepared the successful plans is to cross the Missouri river.



WIRE nails have to a very large extent supplemented cut nails for building purposes. Many carpenters and builders, however, declare that wire nails for shingles are a failure. Their life is not more than SIX or seven years, or even less where large quantities of soft coal are burned, or near the sea. Along the Atlantic Coast copper or galvanized iron nails are taking the place of wire nails for shingles. The blame for leaky roofs may not lie so much in the shingles as in the nails.



THERE is a city by-law in force in Toronto, limiting the area in certain classes of building, without a fire wall, to 4,000 square feet. There is some difference of opinion as to the wisdom of such a law. As a precaution against fires it is well to have it, while on the other hand, it restricts the size of large shops at the expense of appearance and convenience. As a matter of fact, the law is set at defiance in many cases. We could point to buildings now being built or re-constructed in which much larger areas than the law allows, without fire walls, are found Buildings of larger area should at least be fire proof. While the law is there it should be enforced. If it is objectionable let it be repealed, but it is not right that it should be ignored. Is it not the duty of the building inspector to see to this?



AMONG the papers which were read at the recent meeting of the <assoc>Medical Health Association </assoc>for Ontario, was one by Mr. <person>H. J. Bowman</person>, Town Engineer, of Berlin, Ont., on the "Possibility of simple and Safe House Plumbing." Mr. Bowman's paper is in the nature of a review of the by-law attached to the Medical Health Act of 1884, which by-law is in force in all municipalities where it has not been superseded by one of their own. Having been passed so long ago, it is defective in some respects, in the light of fuller knowledge on sanitary questions and improved methods of plumbing, and Mr. Bowman points out a number of ways in which it should be altered, which will probably be done at the next session of the Ontario Legislature. The paper is a valuable one, and we shall endeavor to publish it in full in a future issue.



<article title="Improvements in House Drainage" author="">IMPROVEMENTS IN HOUSE DRAINAGE.



IN a paper read at a meeting of the Architectural League, <person>Mr. Gerhard</person>, C. E., Consulting Engineer for Sanitary Works, brought out a number of points relating to improved methods of house drainage in America. Some of these it will be of interest to note.

At the outset Mr. Gerhard refers to a noticeable improvement as to drainage plans. The practice has been to indicate the location of plumbing fixtures on the floor plans, but beyond this to give very little information. In consequence of the plumbing laws which have been enacted, it is now the custom to prepare a special drainage plan, on which the drainage and soil pipes are shown in detail, with size, and all other information necessary to enable contractors to make their estimates in an intelligent way. The workmen are assisted in that they can find by reference to the plans where the pipes are to be run, and architects and building superintendents are saved, because they do not require to spend so much time at the buildings and in answering questions. Well considered drainage plans are therefore of great assistance, especially in the case of large and important structures. The same holds true as to plumbing specifications. When too general in their character the result is that the estimates for the work run widely apart. The more detailed and accurate they are the closer will the figures be, and the more will the finished work conform to the expectations of the architect and his client. Extras will be avoided, at least the extras which the architect finds himself compelled to order on account of omissions in the original specifications. Mr. Gerhard condemns the use of the printed blank specifications of the building department, which, while convenient and labor-saving for the department, are not sufficiently detailed for anything but small buildings, or simple warehouses.

Turning to the question of material, Mr. Gerhard condemns the use of earthenware pipes, and commends the practise of

using the same grade of pipe for the soil, drain and vent pipe systems of any building. In some cities the use of extra heavy pipe is compulsory, and Mr. Gerhard approves of it being so, and he further suggests that, in order to guard against sandholes or imperfect seams, only pipes and fittings should be used which have been tested by hydrostatic pressure. He further advocates the more extensive use of screw-jointed wrought iron pipe for drainage, more especially in the case of high buildings. Architects and plumbers are coining to look with more favor on this class of material. Protection against rust at the joints is provided for by the use of coal tar or hot asphalt, or by the application of a process which renders the pipes rustless, or galvanized pipe may be used. The use of drawn lead and brass traps, instead of cast lead and lead with hand made seams, is commended.

Mr. Gerhard next refers to the improvement as to the size of drains, commending small-sized pipes in preference to large ones, so long as they are of sufficient size to do their work. Two small drains are preferable to one large one, the reason being that the smaller sizes are better self-cleaners. An instance is given where a large building in New York, with 205 wash-basins, 24 sinks, 52 urinals, 62 water-closets, all the roof water, and other wastes, are carried off by two six-inch pipe sewers, with a fall of one-fourth inch to the foot. We presume many architects will not agree with Mr. Gembard in this matter, but he has given the subject much study and his opinion should be worth something. The same principle lie applies to soil and waste pipes, which are made smaller than formerly.

As to the method of laying drains, Mr. Gerhard condemns the practise of burying the pipes in the ground. Rather, he says, incase them in concrete, with man-holes at suitable intervals for examination or cleaning, but he favors the plan of suspending them from the ceiling or fastening them to the cellar wall.

Another point of improvement is the non-separation of bath, lavatory and sink wastes from "water-closet and soil pipes. The double system is complicated and expensive, without corresponding advantage, and was the former practise in England, whence it was introduced to America. It was also the practise to have separate soil pipes from the baths and water-closets of each floor, making a complication of plumbing with added expense. The tendency now is to simplify as much as possible, to group plumbing fixtures, and to concentrate the drainage in a single line of pipe, thus securing a well flushed line and economy in construction.

The common-sense system of open plumbing is highly commended by Mr. Gerhard. How the old plan of placing the pines in a house under floors, behind plaster walls, and in other out-of-die-way places, where they were quite inaccessible in case of accident, ever came to be adopted seems incomprehensible.

Mr. Gerhard sees a great advance in the methods of house drainage adopted during the past ten years, and while we can recognize what has been done in the way of improvement, we must all admit that there is much room yet, before we reach a full conformity with the laws which nature has laid down for us in such matters.



<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.



Mr. <person>W. A. Langion</person>, architect, of Toronto, will leave for England in a few days. <person>Mr. Langton </person>has promised to give the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER thc benefit of what comes under his notice in relation to architectural subjects.

Messrs. <firm>Arnoldi & Calderon</firm>, architects, of Ottawa, recently dissolved partnership. Mr.<person>King Arnoldi </person>has just formed a new partnership with Mr. <person>J. A. Ewart, </person>under the style of <firm>Arnoldi & Ewat. </firm>Mr. A. M. Calderon is practising on his own account at new offices, 45 Elgin street.

Congratulations are in order for <person>Mr. Sproat</person>, of the firm of <firm>Darling, Sproat & Pearson</firm>, architects, of this city. An announcement in the marriage columns of the papers is the cause. On the 14th of August he led to the altar Miss <person>Annie E. Harris</person>, daughter of Mr. <person>John Beverly Harris</person>, of Tyndall avenue. The Architect AND Builder joins in best wishes.

Mr. <person>Richard Dinnis</person>, contractor for the carpenter work on the new court house, Toronto, met with in unfortunate accident recently which will lay him up for some tune, lie was driving along Front street with his little grandson and a servant, when n a runaway horse dashed into his buggy and overturned it, throwing the occupants out. Mr. Dinnis suffered a dislocation of the shoulder and some severe cuts. The little boy was not seriously injured and the servant escaped unhurt. Mr. Dinnis is one of our oldest builders, having been in the business some forty years, and has numerous friends, who hope he will soon recover from the effects of the accident

