<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



<article title="Qualities of building Stone" author="Thompson, Maurice">QUALITIES OF BUILDING-STONE.*

By MAURICE THOMPSON.



THE qualities necessary to the best possible building-stone are, workability, durability and beauty. It must also be cheap.

Workability includes in its meaning, accessibility, a ready yielding to quarrying operations, the absence of refractory qualities under the hammer and chisel, and a texture and grain that will hold decorative finish.

Stone that cannot be quarried readily has the disadvantage of great cost to begin with. If the raw material" is expensive, the finished product must be costly. On the other hand, if nature has so deposited her stores that the stone is easily taken from the quarry, still, if the material is refractory in the final cutting and finishing; no matter what may be its other qualities, it cannot he a very cheap material for the builder, as it will demand an over amount of expense and delay in preparation. Still less will it he desirable if it obstinately refuses to hold finish or decoration. Stone that comes from the quarry soft, and yet somewhat tough, but hardening after a time, has the finest quality of workability. This renders it easy to quarry, very responsive to the tools of the cutter, and capable of taking easily, and holding permanently, the finish and decorative designs of the architect's specifications. It must he kept in mind, however, in examining stone, that it comes from the quarry wet, and for that reason easily workable, it may again take up water after drying, which would he most objectionable ; but if, in the process of drying in the first place, it passes through a chemical change which will render it ever afterwards impervious to water, the quality is just what could be wished for in this regard. Usually an examination of the outcropping surfaces of the stone in place will give a safe knowledge of its value as regards workability. Next, after the character of the stone, regard must be had touching the condition of its deposit. Too much overlying matter, whether stone or earth, will usually make the quarry work very heavy and expensive. This overlying matter, technically called "stripping," is, as a rule, quite worthless, and must he entirely removed before the stone can be worked with steam channelers or other quarrying appliances, hence the necessity of a careful examination to determine its nature and extent in each case before opening a quarry.

Durability, as applied to building-stone, includes every quality tending to make the material lasting and unchangeable after it is laid in a structure. These qualities are many, and often seemingly conflicting in their nature. Hardness, elasticity, tensile strength, power to resist the greatest crushing force, imperviousness to water, and invulnerability to the attacks of air and its corrosive and disintegrative burdens, are some of the qualities, but not all. Evenness and homogeneity of composition, unity of substance, so to speak, and the power to resist extremes of heat and cold, are quite as necessary. It will be seen at once that chemical analysis must he relied on to insure the best knowledge of some of these requirements. Some otherwise good and durable limestones will become corroded and discolored, and have their integrity destroyed by the effect of sulphurous smoke from the burning of impure coals others will be injuriously affected by the action of rain-water, and still others by the oxidizing power of the air. Some sandstones bear too much iron in their composition ; others lack sufficient cohesion of the particles, while others again are clayey, or unequal in grain or texture. Every test of practical science should be given to stone before it is used in any building intended to be a permanent structure. As a rule, if the outcropping ledges are found to be infiltrated with water, which makes the outer surface constantly damp, the stone will not be good, for this would indicate that it would take up too much moisture in the wall. Still, it is often the case that an apparently over-hydrous stone will dry out permanently after it is quarried and cut. Many of the sandstones, notably the better qualities of conglomerate, are of this character, and so soft when first taken out that they may he cut to any rough shape with a common axe or hatchet, but hardening after a few days' exposure so that water will not affect them.

The elasticity of stone may be tested by sawing it into long, slender strips, say two inches square and three feet long, when, if it be quite perceptibly flexible, its elasticity is good. If such a bar be suspended so as to hang free by a string, and is struck a light blow with a hammer, its evenness and solidity of fiber will be attested by a clear, sweet metallic note, not unlike that of a fine bell, or that of a well tempered steel bar. As a rule, the best stone will break with a direct line of fracture; but it may be conchoidal, or otherwise indirect, and still be unobjectionable. Parallel lines of cleavage, or of stratification, are always favorable indications where other features are promising.

Resistance to crushing weight may be pretty safely inferred from solidity of texture and evenness of grain; but it is always necessary,

 From the Seventeenth Indiana Geological Report.

before a final acceptance, to submit the material to the severest tests of an apparatus designed for that purpose. This will be described in the proper place.

In examining sandstone, with a view to building purposes, the outcropping, if there be any, should be carefully scanned with a view to discovering what effect long exposure to the atmosphere and the rigors of winter may have had upon it. If the stone has weathered" badly, this will be shown by one or another sign of disintegration or demolition, and a talus of fragments and sand will he found formed at or near the base of the outcropping cliff. Often the substance of the rock will give unmistakable evidence of inequalities of structural composition, such as horizontal cavities caused by the weathering out of seams or streaks, that, on account of bearing too much iron, have oxidized and crumbled away. Such stone, if used in a building, would prove worthless, and, therefore dangerous. It is often the ease, as I have observed during a long experience, in civil engineering, that public bridges erected by counties are rendered unsafe by having their piers and abutments constructed of this kind of stone, and that, too, in places where most excellent material lay near at hand, and which a little knowledge of the nature of the stone would have pointed out to the superintendent. Too frequently it happens that appearances of the most untrustworthy kind are relied upon where an ignorant person is set to do work which ought to be in charge of a skilled and well informed engineer.

In judging of the probable durability of limestone, before subjecting it to any test of science, the same observations should be made as in the case of sandstone, with a view to ascertaining its weathering qualities. Any unequal discoloration of the face of the exposed ledge should be scrutinized carefully. Usually these are caused by the presence of iron in the composition of the rock. But limestones are much more injuriously affected by hidden faults of composition than are sandstones, and for this reason they demand a much more careful examination before any extensive quarries are opened. It is often the case that iron in limestone will do no more than discolor the outer surface on exposure to the action of air and rain-water; but even this is a serious defect when the stone is to be used in any structure wherein beauty is a chief object. For the rough masonry of ordinary bridges, and for the hidden foundations of buildings, a cheap and durable stone is what is most wanted, and in these discoloration's is not a fatal fault.

Beauty, when the term is applied to any building material, includes all the good qualities already enumerated, with the added value of a pleasing color, or combination of colors, and a general effectiveness of appearance when the structure in which it is used has been completed. The variegated granites undoubtedly are the most beautiful of all building materials. Next to granite, the red and brown sandstones are most pleasing to the eye but the white, gray and blue limestones are very effective, and they have the advantage over granite in that they work much more easily in ornamentation, while they take figures in relief with far more clearness of action than do the sandstones as a rule. Architects have long since discovered the pleasing effects to be produced by using different kinds of stones in the same building, placing each where its particular qualities will best serve the general motive of the design.

As a rule, all else being equal, the stone which holds its native color best will he most beautiful in a building; and of the stones which change color, that will be most desirable which changes least and evenly. Some of the gray sandstones, however, change color unevenly, and give a striking and oftentimes picturesque cloudiness to the surface, which adds to its effectiveness of color in a wall. The nearly white limestones that take on by exposure a dark cream-brown hue, if they do not contain too much magnesia, hold that tint very well, and are quite beautiful. As a rule, the presence of many large animal remains in a stone is objectionable on account of the tendency of such a composition to crumble ; but where the fossiliferous rock is durable, it will usually be found very beautiful when cut, the organic remains bossing it over with variegation, that greatly heighten its appearance. Stone which contains large fossils is not, however, the best for receiving raised ornamentation's, such as figures in relief, no matter how durable and beautiful it may be, for the animal form will interfere with nicety of cutting and polish as well as with the regularity of the figures. Fossils will usually be found harder than the matrix in which they are set but this is not always the ease, for quite often the form is that of a hollow east or impress, filled in with material which crumbles easily. As a rule, fossils, though very hard, are but loosely set in sandstone, and often they are very large and rough forms of plants, extremely siliceous and refractory. Blocks containing these are to be avoided as probably worthless for building purposes, however valuable and interesting they may he from a scientific point of view.

Many very beautiful stones that are not durable when exposed to the weather, are very valuable for the inside finishing of buildings, where they will last for ages, holding the finest tints of their coloring without perceptible change.

From what has been said above, it will be seen that every owner of

