<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER  181



life on many sides, and of a very special and intimate kinship with many—I might almost say with most—of the studies included in the university curricula.

Take, for example, Medicine and Law. In the former the great department of Hygiene is as much architectural as medical and rightly to understand this branch of science, so important to us all, individually and as communities, some knowledge of scientific planning and building, of sanitation and of plumbing, should he as necessary to the Bachelor of Medicine as is, without doubt, essential to the architect some acquaintance with bacteriology and germ theories, with the spread and prevention of disease. The two studies, apparently so far apart, have this much at least absolutely in common, and upon common ground like this, the unity of learning receives a very patent application.

So too in Law, where Professional Practice of the architect, Contracts arid Arbitration, are the common ground, much as Medical Jurisprudence is common ground to Law and Medicine.

Even in Theology and Divinity again, it is obvious that we have common ground. It is not that I claim it necessary for an architect to be a theologian—heaven forbid; but who can look back upon the grandest triumphs of Christian architecture, those glorious cathedrals, in which are enshrined the piety and devotion and zeal and faith of the middle ages, without feeling that the men who planned an built those temples were in truest sympathy with the creed for which they built them. A little further back and the monk who worshipped in the Abbey church and the monk who built the Abbey church were brethren in the self-same cloister. And even in these modern days, when work is specialized, and students of architecture and theology have perforce their separate schools of study—both, it may be, apt to be too technical—that architect, it seems to me, cannot be of the highest sot t who in studying a church is wholly indifferent to the forms of creed and worship of which he seeks to understand the outward shrine. (Applause.)

In the Faculty of Arts—that faculty to which all of us who have had the immense advantage of attending its courses (whether in this university or elsewhere) must ever look back with deepest gratitude and most loyal affection—gratitude for its broad, true education in the fullest sense, for its humanizing influence on all our after lives, for its catholic, vitalizing inspiration that does not pass away—affection for its serene disinterested ideals, which we fain would cling to through storm and stress of after years, yet cannot always keep before us as we would—in the Faculty of Arts there is scarcely a subject, I am thankful to claim, with which Architecture has not close and abiding kinship.

To Philosophy we turn in relationship of pupils to our teacher. Where else can we get the principles of logic, of induction and

deduction, that must be employed in criticism? Where else the foundation for those principles of aesthetic sense and art, which it is ours to embody n creating logical, harmonious design ?

To Architecture, as to Engineering, Science is of vital import— the foundation upon which it works, from mathematics to geology, from botany and chemistry to physics. Where else can we get the principles of statics and dynamics, of thrust and equilibrium, arch and buttress? Where else can we learn to know the materials that we are using? For, not knowing them, how can we hope to use them aright? Where else can we learn the principles

—the despair of architects—of sound and heat and light, to apply which in actual buildings as acoustics or as ventilation is so often, even to the best of us, a source of tribulation, discredit and disaster. (Laughter and applause.)

With Literature and Classics it is obvious that Architecture goes hand in hand. Our modern architecture is as steeped in classical form and classical tradition as is the language we speak and use from day to day. Does not the exquisite harmony and proportion of Greek architecture, even in its ruins, form the truest, the most vivid illustration of that Hellenic spirit, which still profoundly rules mankind? Is not the oratory of Demosthenes brought home to us by the rhythm of the Parthenon, the music of AEschylus and Sophocles and Plato, by the beauty of Doric Propylaea or Ionic Erechthcum? Does not the might of Rome, welding the civilized world for the first time in its history into one great empire, impressing a sense of unity like a revelation, on the world, so that after centuries, right down to our own, still clung to it and strove to realize it as of old—does Rome not find its expression as truly in its architecture as in its laws ? that architecture, which still maintains its hold upon us, and which twelve or thirteen centuries ago was planted by the conquering legions triumphantly from East to West, from far Palmyra to Eboracum in Northern Britain. Roman building is indelibly stamped with the imprint of the

Roman character and genius from the Atlantic to the Euphrates, from Wroxeter in the west of England, or Lincoln in the east, to Nimes in France, or Merida in Spain, on the Tagus, the Tiber, or the Danube, in Asia as in Europe, her architecture, ruined and fragmentary, as it mostly is still bears the most eloquent of testimony to the vigorous, pre-eminent, unifying power of Rome it is the grandest illustration the Latin classics could desire. (Cheers.)

If there is one subject in the Faculty of Arts that seems to appeal to all with (varying, perhaps, but) never failing force, whose educative value (it seems to me) is inexhaustible, its human interest perennial, it is the study of history. My colleague, whose occupancy of the Chair of History at this university is a cause for rejoicing to us all, (applause) will not, at least, gainsay me, when I claim that there is not a more convincing commentary on the history of the past than the architecture which that past has bequeathed us. Architecture is the most obvious, the most obtrusive of the arts it confronts us in our homes and in our streets wherever we travel in countries which inherit the precious legacy of history, the great monuments of architecture are second only in interest and importance to the great landmarks of nature herself. They are noble records of the past in stone. Wherever man has dwelt and lived worthily, he has left, heaped up in noble piles, the history of his day, the memorial of the deeds he did.

Architecture is the great object lesson of history. Without its eloquence of storied stone, history would be shorn of its most poetic, its most impressive and oftentimes its only witness it would sink to the dull prose of the half forgotten chronicler. It is, perhaps, through its buildings mainly that the past holds out in tangible form its living hand to the present What other link have we at once so impressive and so human to bind us to our forefathers? to connect the life of to-day with the life of bygone centuries? to remind us that to-day, with its struggles and weariness, its whirl and strife, its success arid its disappointment, is yet not all; that centuries and centuries have come and gone in which men have lived and striven and struggled too, have lost and won, and have handed on the torch to the next runners in life's handicap. (Applause.) Voltaire, I think it was, but the phrase has been so often quoted that by whom first said is half forgotten— Voltaire has said ''happy the nation that has no history." Whoever it was that said it, he spoke a most preposterous folly. It is not even a half truth, in the sense that a nation's history must register a nation's crimes. A Hottentot has scarcely a yesterday or a to-morrow. That is to be without a history, but it is not to be destitute of crime nor is it national happiness. And, need I remind you, the Hottentot has not evolved an architecture; lie lives on in ignoble generations, till ultimately, inevitably, and perhaps properly, snuffed out. A nation that has no history is not a nation and every nation that has the incomparable blessing of a history has something at least to show in the way of its national architecture. In a very special way architecture is concerned in the ennobling legacy of the past only through the past can we builders learn thoroughly to grasp the present and work out strenuously the future of our craft.

With an illustration or two of History in Architecture, I have done. First, let us glance at Ancient Egypt—comparatively a morsel of a country, consisting of the oozy Nile bed, and corresponding very closely with Euclid's definition of a line—length without breadth. In this narrow strip of country, long drawn Out, a people not so very numerous, have contrived to write their history in architecture in characters so magnificent for scale that for sixty centuries they have been unrivalled. Only from the overpowering architecture of their tombs do we know those mighty men of old, the builders of the Pyramids. Yet their names are imperishably preserved for us in the majesty of their violated limestone shrouds. They are happy in that their architecture has kept for us their history a history that remains forever fresh, from the ineffaceable impressiveness arid grandeur of their works.

Or take, some five and twenty centuries later, their distant successors, the Kings of Thebes. Can the memory of Rameses ever pass away so long as his ruined halls at Kanak and Luxor

—those mightiest of temples—remain to tell their wondrous tale? Year by year that wondrous country of the Nile yields up to modern research that wearies not the secret of its centuries so long by-gone; will the fascination of Egypt ever grow dim? Will the romance of its history grow stale and unprofitable to us moderns? I cannot think it. But where would that history be if it was not for those incomparable monuments in which it is enshrined? Perhaps nowhere else on the face of the earth are the history of a people and its architecture so absolutely synonymous.

Let us turn to early mediaeval Europe, those countries of savage

