<doctype type="text">199   THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ILLUSTRATIONS.

	PRELIMINARY SKETCHES FOR PROPOSED	STABLE	AND



COACHMAN'S DWELLING AT OAKVILLE, ONT.



MESSRS. DICK & WICKSON, ARCHITECTS.



REPRODUCTION FROM A DRAWING BY N. T. LYON, OF



CENTRAL PORTION OF A STAINED GLASS WINDOW,



PRESENTED BY ARCHBISHOP WALSH TO THE



CHAPEL OF THE SISTERS OF ST. JOSEPH,



TORONTO, OF WHICH MR. JOS. CON



NOLLY IS THE ARCHITECT.



RESIDENCE FOR MR. W. R. MILLER, STANLEY STREET,



MONTREAL. R. FINDLAY, ARCHITECT.



This residence, recently completed, is a good illustration of What can be done in making an old building meet modern requirements, and by the skill of the architect such changes are often successfully carried

0 Lit.



The old building, once a private stable and coach house, and belonging to one of Montreal's leading citizens, was purchased by Mr. Miller, who decided to convert it into a residence, and entrusted the work to Robt. Findlay, architect. The result has been most satisfactory, and the building is now considered one of the best residences in the city. Although so great a change has been wrought, the old foundations, a portion of the old walls, and the entrance doorway, still remain, and form part of' the new building. The interior is handsomely designed and finished in the old colonial style. A handsome stable and out-buildings have also been erected within the grounds. The site is an excellent one on the mountain slope and overlooking the city.

<article title=" FRENCH METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION " author="">

FRENCH METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.

IN the construction of large buildings in France iron has been used to a much less extent than in America.

Heretofore its use in its ordinary form has been confined to floors, partitions and roofs, where, as a rule, It is covered by a coating of cement, wood or stone, except in the case of buildings destined for hrasseries or drinking halls, where the iron was left visible, and emphasized by means of painting or mosaic work. In the city of Paris, however, iron is fast finding favor for employment in combination with other materials, such as cement or concrete, and in a special form known as the cement arme system. By this method iron and steel is employed in the form of thick wire, trellis, or light bars, imbedded in cement or concrete. Three different systems of this construction have been used in various buildings of more or less importance, and are said to possess advantages when employed for floors, partitions and roofs, both as regards economy, conveniences For internal arrangements, and decorative purposes.

In a building constructed for the Society of Civil Engineers, iron and other modern materials were liberally used. The facade in this building is 100 feet long, and is built of solid stonework, the thickness of the masonry at the lower storeys being 24 inches and at the upper stories 18 inches. The body of the building is constructed of a framework of iron, the chief supports consisting of four framed iron uprights, 16 in. by 16 in., rising from the basement to the roof. The uprights are held together at the floor by iron girders, supporting the iron joists of the upper floors and the light partitions which divide up each storey.

Nearly all the stone is dressed after being put in place, which affords greater facilities for studying the

general ensemble of the facade and the proper scale to be given to the mouldings and decoration. The stone is soft when first taken from the quarries, but becomes hard and durable after dressing and exposure to the air. The courtyard wall of the building is formed of light brick or metallic fillings between the iron uprights and the party walls.

The ground floor is built after the Cogent system, composed of light iron bars and cement ; the first floor and its supporting pillars and arches are constructed after the Hennebique system of cement arme ; the upper floors are formed of iron joists filled in with light supports and plaster or with lerra cotta fillings between joists.

The ground floor of the conference hall, 50 X 20 ft., paved with mosaic work, will he a movable one, to be raised or lowered by an ingenious system of hydraulics, and capable of being placed in an inclined position for conference meetings or raised to a horizontal position for ball-room purposes.

The roof is lined internally with agglomerated cork bricks, and the walls of the area will be lined with opaline, a vitreous material of a bluish—white color, which will afford cleanliness and afford additional light.

<article title=" ELECTRIC STONE CUTTING " author="">

ELECTRIC STONE CUTTING.

AN ingenious application of electricity has recently been made in the large new Hotel Cecil, in London, Eng. After the marble staircase was put up it was found that the balusters had been placed so far apart that it was quite possible for a child to slip between them. In order to make the stairs pertectly safe it was resolved to place a brass baluster between every two marble ones. In order to do this as quickly as possible, with a minimum of noise and dirt, the use of an electric motor with flexible shaft and twisted drill was suggested. A small one-horse iron—clad motor, controlled by the operator, was used, and the holes were drilled at the rate of thirty or forty a day. They were neat and clean, with very little fracture at the edges. This method of rapid drilling is said to be likely to take a prominent place in marble working.

<article title=" RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS " author="">

RECENT CANADIAN PATENTS.

The following patents, of interest to architects and builders, have recently been granted for Canada

hot Water Boiler--Geo. C. Morrison, Hamilton, Ont. The claim is for a vertical boiler, constructed of one seamless tubular piece having threaded or screwed ends, and faced in combination with the heads, having inner true face, to engage with end of said boiler when screwed in position, with water inlet and circulating tube or pipe, and a waler heating reservoir connected by means of pipes.

Clay Mouki for Sanitary Ware—F. B. Dakin, of Iberville, and C. C. Corneille, of Montreal, Que. It consists of a clay body, comprising Pennsylvania Feldspathic clay as a base, a silicious clay, English ball clay and English Cornwall stone.

Brick Kiln—John K. Caldwell, Minneapolis, Minn.

Rock Crushing and Grinding Apparatus—Kinkead Mill Company, San Francisco, Cal.

Hot Water Heater--John Barsley, Montreal, Que.

Hydrant—E. S. Manney, Montreal, Que.

Hot Water Furnace Joseph T. Robbins, Newton, Iowa.

Metallic Lathing- —Alex. R. Fordyce, Newark, U. S.

Metal Lath—D. B. Hilton, Brooklyn, N. J.

Brick-Making Machine—Frank Guiteridge, Seaforth, Ont.

Art or Process of Making Sione for Buildings R. A Pyne, J. M. Huchins, 7. Hemphill and H. M. East, of Toronto.

Machine for the Production of Slabs of Plaster, Cement or Composition— R. W. Hitchins, Finsbury, London. Eng.

