<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER



contractors were Messrs. holbrook & Indertaut, P. Kennedy, A. Garvock, W. Matthews, T. A. Shore and A. Sparks.

As for the coming year, besides the railway station there will he an addition built to the Protestant Hospital, at a cost of $60,000, and a block of new stores on Sparks street to cost about $50,000 Other than these there is not much new work in sight yet.

<article title=" HAMILTON " author="">

HAMILTON.



In Hamilton there has been a considerable decrease in the value of the buildings erected. An estimate of the year's operations gives the figures at $293,465, a decrease from 1894 of $13,ooo. Beyond the new station and freight shed of the Toronto, Hamilton and Buffalo Railway, and the I hinter street tunnel for the same line, there is nothing calling for special mention. The Centenary church erected an addition in the form of a Sunday School building, otherwise operations have been pretty well restricted to residences. Brick is the principal material employed.

Outside the city, however, the Smelting Works Co. have been erecting extensive buildings and plant. The value of these is not included in the above figures, though it was principally Hamilton material and labor that was employed.

The prospect for this year is bright. A new collegiate Institute and school of pedagogy is to be built, which will cost some

$60,000 Or $70,000

<article title=" LONDON " author="">

LONDON.



The year has been a very satisfactory one for architects and builders in the Forest City. No less than 150 buildings have been erected, at a cost of over $420,000. Residences have predominated, but there has also been great activity in church building. Two large Methodist churches have been erected to take the place of two destroyed by fire within a short time of each other. The power house of the Electric Railway Co., with its necessary adjuncts, represent a large outlay.

the following are the principal buildings erected, with their cost and the names of the architects engaged: Queens' Avenue Methodist church, $100,000 E. Burke, Toronto, and H. C. McPride, London, architects Dundas Street Methodist church, $50,000 John King, Toronto, architect; St. Matthews Church of England, $1o,ooo, Moore & Henry, architects Free Library building, $15,000, Herbert Matthews, architect; Y. M. C. A. building, $15,000, Moore & Henry, architects; London Street Railway Co.'s power house, $1o,ooo, American architects; residence for Jos. Smith, $1o,ooo, Herbert Matthews, architect; D. S. Perrin' s residence in the country, $10,000 and biscuit factory, $10,000 Geo. Craddock, architect. Knox Presbyterian church. in London south, has also undergone alterations to the extent of $8,ooo.

Other large works have been completed, such as the two large steel bridges on the London and Port Stanley R. R., built by the Dominion Bridge Co. 0. A. Graydon was the engineer. these bridges are 624 ft. long by 69 ft. high and 512 ft. long by 71 ft high respectively, costing together $54,ooo. Another bridge, by the same company, was placed over Javitt's pond, with a 264 ft. span and having a height of 30 ft. It cost $10,000

Over a mile of asphalt pavement has been laid on Richmond street, from the G.T.R. station to Ridout St., at a cost of $6,6oo. The Barber Asphalt Co., of Buffalo, laid it.

The prospect for the coming year is considered good.



KINGSTON.



VERY little building was carried on in Kingston during the year, the amount expended not exceeding $70000, which is less than for the preceding year. Operations in business and public buildings were confined to alterations and repairs, and any residences built were of the cheaper class. Materials and labor commanded lower prices than in 1894. It is a little too early to say what the year 1896 will bring forth, but at present there is no prospect of witch activity.



BELLEVILLE.



As anticipated a year ago building has been much more active in this young city than in 1894, nearly double the amount having been expended on new buildings. The structures calling for



special mention are St. Andrew's church, to replace that destroyed by fire, at a cost of about $30,000 and an annex to Albert College, representing an outlay of sonic $20,000. Messrs. Darling, Sproatt & Pearson, of Toronto, were the architects of the former, and Messrs. Geo. M. Miller & Co., of the latter. In addition there have been a number of fine residences built, Mr. Thos. Hanley, architect, having had the oversight of four. The material used was principally brick. Material and labor were about the same in price as in 1894 The total outlay was from $170,ooo to

$200,000. An electric street railway has been built. The prospect for the coming season's operations is hopeful.



BROCKVILLE.



There has been greater activity in this town than for several years, a spurt having set in the building of terrace houses renting at from $20 to $30 a month. Several such have been erected. Additions have been built to both the General and St. Vincent R. C. hospitals, at a cost in each case of somewhere about $1o,ooo. A goodly number of small houses were built by workmen for their own accommodation, while at the new asylum, just east of the town, a number of cottages have been completed and occupied. Work has also been commenced on the International bridge, and considerable stonework done on the piers. The outlay for buildings (the asylum and bridge not included) will amount to some $175,000 or $200,000. The Cossitt terrace represents $20,000 and the Publow terrace $23,500. For the former Mr. G. A. Allan was the architect and Messrs. Simpson & Hagarty contractors for all trades except plumbing and heating, which was done by Barsalow & Co.; for the latter Mr. 0. E. Liston was architect, with the same contractors, except plumbing and heating, which went to Mr. W. S. Gamble. The prospect for the coming season is promising. A summer hotel is talked of, and an electric street railway is a certainty.

ST. THOMAS



There has been a falling off in building operations in St. Thomas the past year and operations have been confined pretty much to a good class of brick residences and a few business places. The price of building materials has been a little higher than in 1894, but labor has been about the same. One firm of architects, Messrs. Long & Long, have had work in hand representing an outlay of $57, 1oo, a considerable share of which was, however, outside the city, including a number of churches, and the Industrial Institute at Meneey for the education of Indians, which Cost $30,ooo. The prospect for the coming year is only fair.



STRATFORD.



About $85,000 has been expended in Stratford, which includes $15,000 spent on the restoration of the post office. The balance was chiefly on residences of a cheap class, largely brick veneer, and the total shows a falling off of $20,ooo. Work being scarce, labor could be had at a lower rate than formerly.



CHATHAM.



Chatham having reached the dignity of a city' the People have felt prompted to put on metropolitan airs, and building operations took on a briskness accordingly, the record showing a considerable excess over 1894. Probably $150,000 will approximate the outlay. The principal buildings were a fanning mill factory, costing $25,000, T. J. Rutley, architect, Richard & Co., contractors; Presbyterian church, $8,000 Jas. L. Wilson, architect Methodist church, brick veneered, $1,800; and brick houses costing from $5,000 down. Both brick and lumber were cheaper. Wages were about the same.

SARNIA.



Sarnia erected a general hospital of brick at a cost of $25,000, of which Mr. H. G. Phillips was architect. Other operations were confined almost entirely to a cheap class of residences, largely of wood, and $35,ooo will probably cover the cost of buildings erected in the town during the season.



COLLINGWOOD.



A marine hospital costing $5,000 a Presbyterian church, $5, 6oo, the Globe hotel $14,000, and additions to the Collingwood Meat Co.'s buildings, $4,000, help to swell the value of building



operations in this town. The outlay has been some $20,ooo more than in 894, and the total will not be far from $88,ooo, the balance being principally residences. Brick was the principal material used. Skilled labor was higher. For the hospital Mr. Fred T. Hodgson was architect and Peterman & Sons contractors; for the church, Gregg & Gregg, Toronto, architects, Bryan manufacturing Co., contractors; for the hotel, F. T. Hodgson, architect, and Wilson Bros., contractors for the Meat Co. s buildings, John Wilson, architect, and the Bryan Mfg. Co., contractors. Next season it can hardly be expected that so many new buildings will be erected.

QUEBEC



The ancient capital, respecting which a falling off was noted in last YEAR'S review, has experienced a further retrograde movement, which does not augur well for the future of this interesting old city. About $350,000 has been expended, of which $125,000

