<doctype type="text">

A few years ago we had to replace a copper flat on the roof of Somerset house. The copper itself was not perished, as may be seen by the sample which we kept. The reason it had to be replaced was that. it had been laid in the old style with stand-tip welts, and these had been trodden down and broken. There is good reason to believe that this copper was laid when Somerset house was built.

We have also obtained a sample of the copper on the church of St. Botolph's which is very thin, weighing only about T4 oz. to the foot. The metal is still not perished, although probably laid when the church was built. Through the sinking of the timber it is out of repair, and this is one of many instances in which the copper covering outlasts the material of the building. A remarkable instance occurred some little time ago, which showed, at the same time, the great durability of copper and the importance of having it properly laid.

We were instructed to take the old copper off a church in Wiltshire, and were told by the architect that it had been laid 250 years ago. the flat sheets were not perished, but the standing welts were worn through. We cut the worn edges off the sheets, and relaid the same material with wood rolls, after repairing the wood work, which had rotted where the upright welts had admitted water.

Next to this paramount question of durability comes that of weight, or, we should rather say. of lightness. Here, of course, lead cannot stand comparison with either zinc or copper. Lead is so soft, and has so little coherence, that in order to make a good job, it is found necessary to lay it very thick nearly 1/8 in. But at the same time, lead is exceedingly heavy, so that a square foot of this thickness weighs upwards of 7 lbs.; it thus happens that when allowance has been made for the necessary rolls and laps, the lead necessary to cover a square of 100 ft.. weighs rather more than the slates which would be necessary to cover the same area, and at least half as much as plain tiles.

Zinc, on account of its superior firmness, is laid in the best manner at about one-fourth of this thickness and less than one—fourth of the weight, say 1 1/2 lbs. to the foot ; but then, as already mentioned, zinc cannot be relied upon to stand more than about one-fourth of the time that lead will.

With copper, however, the case is different. Here we have at least equal durability to that of thick lead, with a thickness still less than that of zinc, and a weight of only 16 oz. to the foot.

On new structures, substantially built, the question of a few tons, more or less, upon the roof, is not, I suppose of very serious consequence. Yet, even in such structures, it may be often worth while to be able safely to use lighter timbers ; but for an old roof, where the supports are not too g, a few bus, one way or the other, may make a very great difference. I may quote as an instance the flat roof of the Port man Rooms. We found this covered with lead and leaking all over. In many places the woodwork had stink, and to cover it with lead would have been exceedingly dangerous. But a perfectly safe and a perfectly sound job was made with copper.

It is unnecessary to add that as a covering to spires, fleches, domes and suchlike erections, the comparative lightness of copper makes it exceedingly appropriate.

Corning now to the next desideratum in a roof-covering, which, for want of a better word, I have been obliged to name Workableness," I must explain that I mean by this the possibility of being turned up with moderately sharp angles and twisted over into welts. As already mentioned, all the three metals under consideration expand and contract with changes of temperature—though copper very much less than either zinc or lead—and therefore all require some arrangement which will leave them free to expand or contract without blistering.

And then, of course, the sheets have to be somehow joined together, and the joint is to be made, if possible, without solder. For it is found that the places where soldered seams have been made perish long before the rest of the metal is worn out.

Although lead is so soft, vet on account of its great thickness it cannot be easily welted, and requires large rolls. On the other hand, its weight and softness incline it to lie close even without joints only then, of course, it is easily displaced. Zinc, being the most expansive of the three metals, and being also more brittle than lead, requires great care in laying, and the provision of very free play for each sheet, both at the ends and sides. On this account, many drips are needed. This is sometimes very objectionable on account of the increase in height.

Copper, on the other hand, expands so little that if wood rolls are used at the sides of moderately wide sheets, the ends may be safely welted together in considerable lengths, and so few drips are necessary.

At the same time, copper is so easily worked that welts are readily made, and may be used not only to connect the sheets in lengths but also to fasten them to the roll-caps at the sides, thus making a very firm and light covering. As a fireproof material, copper is immensely the best of the three metals.

As already stated, lead melts at 630 deg. F., and, therefore, in a fire is soon poured down in a terrible stream, more dangerous than even falling timbers or bricks. Zinc melts at 800 deg. F., and blazes brightly if thrown into an ordinary coal fire.

Copper requires a temperature of 2,143 deg. F. to fuse it, and retains its shape even at a white heat.

As an example, I may mention the instance of a tower in which the woodwork was entirely consumed, while the copper covering was left standing as a hollow cone, the flames and smoke having escaped by a hole in the top. Another instance illustrating this fireproof quality is that of Mr. Stedall's Mantle Warehouse, in Portsmouth. here the copper roof was found intact. after the fire, although the building beneath it was gutted the copper sheets had, in fact, prevented the exit of the flames and stopped the spread of the fire.

The last property I named as required in a roof-covering was Insonorousness. Here lead has the immense advantage of its exceeding softness, and the same quality of softness makes it a non-conductor of heat.

For a long time lead was almost the only metal used for covering roofs, sheet zinc being practically unknown, and the high price of copper almost prohibiting its use for buildings where economy had at all to be considered.

The introduction of sheet-zinc about sixty years ago, and a great reduction in the price of copper during the last twenty years, have altered this state of affairs.

The change would have been greater still but for the fall which has at the same time taken place in tile price of lead, partly on account of the improvements in the methods of separating the silver from it.

At. the present market rates sheet zinc is, weight for weight, nearly twice the price of lead, and sheet copper, weight for weight, nearly three times the price of zinc, or about five times the price of lead. It is evident, therefore, t hat for temporary work sheet zinc is by far the cheapest metal covering, being properly used at one—fourth the thickness, while it is not quite twice the price of lead, and at the same time it has the advantage of lightness.

On the other hand, compared with copper, although it is not much more than one—third of the price, it requires to be laid at least half again as thick.

For a covering to permanent buildings zinc, for reasons already stated, is inadmissible ; while copper and lead are perhaps about equally durable, so far as the metal itself is concerned.

Lead has the advantage over copper of making much less noise in driving rain or a hailstorm, but copper has perhaps still greater advantages over lead, being only about one-sixth the weight, being almost absolutely fireproof, requiring very little support in ornamental work, having only a little more than half the expansiveness under heat, and consequently requiring fewer drips. To which may be added its capacity for being easily welted, and finally the beautiful color which it takes on from a damp atmosphere after a few years of exposure.

