	<doctype type="text">180	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



enormous pile of building' ever reared by man. In it are combined " the finest masonry" and " the most accurate construction known." Many thousands of skilled workmen and an army of a hundred thousand unskilled laborers were employed, it is believed, in building it for twenty years. It is the sepulchral monument of a man whose name we know, but that is all. In all that colossal building, there is no shred of ornament, no vestige of enrichment of any sort ; there is nothing "useless,' unless it be the whole gigantic pile. For, indeed, it has tragically failed to insure a poor inviolability to the body of its founder. Yet, that the Pyramid of Khufu is architecture on the most majestic scale, no one, I think, will deny. I, for one, will gladly add that it is also engineering, magnificent engineering, of which for scientific accuracy we moderns might be justly proud.

Architecture does not consist in mere ornament or decoration. Art is not to be measured by its uselessness, but by its use; nay its vital necessity for the adequate expression of human intelligence and activity ; were it otherwise, I would most willingly concede that, in the midst of such essentially living subjects as Mechanical and Civil and Electrical and Mining Engineering, not to mention Hydraulics—all of the greatest importance in the life of our modern complex communities—Architecture would but survive as an excrescence, an effete tradition, a cumberer of the ground, with a past indeed, but hopeless of a future. Art is neither so shallow a thing, nor yet is it a mystery, a hidden secret revealed to the few and to be swallowed, like a prescription, by the many. Art for the most part is common sense. It is experience touched with poetry. (Applause.) To Michael Angelo, the great Florentine sculptor, painter, architect, engineer and poet of' the 16th century, we owe the significant sentence,

I know but one art." And our modern distinction between fine arts (by which we mean mostly painting and sculpture) industrial arts and mechanical arts and applied arts is wholly a fictitious one, unsubstantial and based on nothing at all in nature or in life around us. The most artistically gifted nation there has been of the Aryan stock is the ancient Greek, whose heyday lasted but a few brief centuries. But the Greeks—like Michael Angelo—knew but one art, and that was good art—and they called it TECHNE, "skill." In the Middle Ages, too, as in the heyday of arts in Greece, this unreal discrimination between art that is fine art and art that is some other art, did not exist. "There was only one art, and that true art," whether expressed in color, as painting, in form, as sculpture, in the total of a noble building, or in the commonest objects of daily use.

I crave your indulgence for enlarging upon this topic, which some may think well-worn and even threadbare; but the extraordinary notions that prevail upon art, the mysterious way in which it is spoken of as something apart, like some religious cult, not to be judged of or understood by ordinary folk, show how misunderstood it is. Art in architecture, as in everything else, consists in that fitness and adaptation to a purpose, that appropriateness in function, in form and expression which, I most sincerely believe, are not only inseparable from, but are the essence of, our appreciation of the beautiful.

Take a modern racing yacht and compare it with a craft of olden (lays—the latter is picturesque enough in hull, with poop and forecastle, in its bellying sails falling naturally into curves that please the eye. But is the modern yacht one whit less beautiful? To me it is infinitely more lovely, yet every line of hull is calculated for a purpose —speed—and every sail is stretched to suit mechanical laws. The beauty—and I know no more graceful outcome of modern scientific design—is due to fitness and absolute appropriateness ; it is most truly art. Take many a modern engine-—the same holds good. Can anything more perfectly express and emphasize its function and its purpose than a modern, well-designed machine? And just in proportion to this successful expression is it beautiful and truly a thing of art.

"The designing of machinery, "—to quote a recent authority— "whether for peace or war, has now reached such a high standard of excellence in function, form and expression that one is justified in saying that these things are entitled to rank as works of art as much as a painting, a piece of sculpture, or a building, and also that machinery is the only true constructive art hat has been produced since the decline of mediaeval architecture.

Do not misunderstand me by thinking that I want to raise steam-hammers and pumps to the level of a painting or a piece of sculpture. All that I maintain is that they are true works of constructive art, and ought to be recognized as such. Moreover, in conjunction with the best art of former days, they each this important lesson, that man cannot, unless warped by

bad education and false criticism, construct anything except in a natural, functional, and therefore artistic manner.

These sentences I have quoted are taken from a very admirable presidential address, delivered not by an engineer to engineers (as possibly you might suppose), but at an art congress in Edinburgh, by the most eminent of living Scottish architects. So, too, it is with architecture. Features that are mere excrescences cannot be really beautiful. A building that fulfills its purpose truthfully and well, that expresses faithfully its function in its form, will always be a satisfactory bit of architecture so far as outward design can go ; while no amount of superficial ornament, however lavishly applied, can make a building really beautiful that fails in essential fitness to its purpose—that is inappropriate. Let me, however, not be misconstrued. Far be it from me to disparage ornament, when mightily used. It is against its false use, and, above all, against that total misconception that makes ornament all in all, exalting the accessory to be the essence, that I have been contending. Architecture may, as in the Pyramids, be majestic and sublime with never a trace of ornament ; even ordinary building may depend solely for its effect on proportion and appropriateness, and be true art. But for the most l)art architecture craves for ampler expression, and in ornament, not applied from without but logically evolved from within, the outcome of the building in organic growth not added as an afterthought, we find the readiest and truest expression of the architect's design. The Parthenon is still an unrivalled monument of grace amid dignity, though its sculptures for the most

1)art are torn from it and scattered in museums. But it was when its true and noble architecture was completed with and wedded to its glorious ornament and sculpture, as One complete organic whole, that this most incomparable work of Grecian art was consummated. For Architecture does at least recognize that it should be beautiful. Amid herein I venture to think, lies its superiority as a university subject to Engineering, in that it is more true to our wider human nature. Constructive engineering, as I judge of it, means, under present conditions, construction reduced to mathematics. It is building by calculation solely, with the result too often of a skeleton without the life. It is economy not only reduced to science but exalted for our worship; it is the apotheosis of utility. But man, iii the long run, craves for what is permanently beautiful, while the modern engineer too often seems willfully to make for what is ugly. Just as the German scientific writer of to-day apparently thinks that a lucid literary style is a pandering to what is popular, and therefore clothes his thought in those Teutonic periods so fearfully and wonderfully made-—-ingens, informe, cui lumen aclemptum—so, too, the modern engineer seems to think that any attempt to make his structures beautiful is waste, a pandering to mere architectural effect, unworthy of scientific designing. Ultimately, I cannot but think, he will find that he is wrong; frail human nature, I believe, will rise in revolt against what is intolerably ugly ; and I have too much faith in the engineering profession not to feel confidence that in the long run their great achievements will be brought to harmonize with this human need and will be beautiful without being one whit less scientific.

On the other hand Engineering scoffs at Architecture—and, I frankly admit, in many cases with much reason—for its faulty construction and its haphazard methods, not to speak of its frequent and most lamentable failures to be appropriate and beautiful. That Architecture ventures on criticizing Engineering I have possibly shown that it fails to justify itself too often, that it is not beautiful, I must sorrowfully admit. Only in the due cooperation of these two great branches of construction, only by loyally accepting each other and working in harmony together, can we, I believe, achieve in these later days the best results. And it is with no ordinary feelings of satisfaction and hope that I enter upon the work of the teaching of Architecture in McGill University, where in the Faculty of Applied Science to a greater extent than in any other university with which I am acquainted, these two departments are knit together, working side by side, so as to acknowledge and appreciate amid supplement each other. (Applause).

But the scope of Architecture is wider yet. Not only must it be scientific to be genuine and therefore allied to, nay, much indebted to, the accuracy, the refinement in calculation and the certainty of engineering; not only must it be artistic to be true, and therefore at once the foundation of all the arts and essentially an all-embracing art, if the term is to have real meaning but it is a many-sided study—hydra-headed, the student is tempted to feel, when the examination—hall looms near—related to

