<doctype type="text">



plover what colors harmonize, what are contrasts and what are suitable to the work in hand— matters that will require but little effort on his part to understand, if he applies himself to the proper sources. It is also essential that the contractor should possess some knowledge of proportion. It is not to be expected that he is to take a regular course, or make a special study of Greek examples, but he should at least know a few of the elementary principles of proportion that may be obtained from many of the low-priced architectural works now in the market. This knowledge is necessary in laying out windows doors stairs, and the sizes of rooms, and in a more Aesthetic sense, in proportioning cornices, plinths, bases, capitals, mouldings, and the thousand and one other things required about a building

So far I have said nothing of lumber and timber required, for as a rule, in this Canada of ours, it is the carpenter who is called upon to design and build the farmer's house, barn, stable or other outbuildings, and it goes without saying that so far as the wood employed in the building is concerned, he knows, or ought to know, all that may be said about it here, so far as quality and durability are concerned but, under this head it may not be out of place to say that he sometimes lacks a proper knowledge of the prices charged for manufactured wood—work. Like many other manufactured goods, factory wood-work is subject to variations in price, and the difference in their price may materially affect the profits expected in a building, and this makes it important that a correct knowledge of prices current be obtained before an estimate is given. The same rule applies to hardware, glass, paint, and in fact, to everything employed on or about a building.

The next thing to be considered is ' how is the country builder to obtain the knowledge suggested in the foregoing?" At first sight it does appear as though it would cost considerable in money, energy and time to acquire this knowledge. I think, however, I will be able to show that with the aid and good will of the country builder, it will not require much energy, less money, and but a little effort to reach the desired goal. In the first place the '' country builder" should subscribe for an architectural paper, similar to the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER, or more than one if he can afford it. This will keep him posted as to the various styles of building in vogue, methods of construction, new materials, new appliances, and all that is going on in the building world. It will also bring the builder face to face with the dealers in the numerous requirements for building purposes, if he scans the advertising pages, such as heating apparatus, hardware, glass (white, stained or plate), bricks, tiles roofing materials, finished wood-work and plumbing fitments. Letters or postal cards sent to their manufacturers or dealers (always mentioning the journal from whence the address is obtained) will be sure to bring by return mail all the information possible regarding the goods mentioned in the advertisements. By looking over the advertising pages carefully, the builder will be sure to find the name and address of some party or parties who make or deal in the goods required, and by following this method a very useful and a very interesting collection of catalogues, circulars and price lists may be secured, that will prove serviceable to both builder and manufacturer. So far as heating appliances are concerned, I may say that many of the prominent

manufacturers issue catalogues of their work that are really a credit to the firm and to the house publishing them, and to the recipients they must prove of great advantage, as they not only show the heater and its construction, give its price, weight and capacity, but frequently give plans for piping with full descriptions, size of pipes, etc., etc., and ofttimes easy and intelligent essays on the principles of heating and ventilation. A little study of these catalogues and a memorizing of sizes, capacities and prices of the goods catalogued, will make the country builder an authority on such matters at once, and this end can be obtained with a minimum of effort and cash.

\With regard to the other requirements mentioned, I may say that I append a list of books which cover the ground, and which in my opinion are best suited to the wants of a country builder who has not had the advantage of a liberal education or a city training.

I do not offer this list as the best of the kind to be had, hut as the best for the purpose discussed. For general purposes either Gwilt or Nicholson would be preferred to London, but, as the latter's " Village and Farm Architecture" just answers a country builder's wants, I name it as the main book he should possess after his monthly architectural journal or journals.

LIST.

	The Canadian Architect and Builder, per year		$ 2	00

	London's Village and Farm Architecture, price		8	00

	The Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book, price                  

	The Builders' Guide and Estimators Price Book, price		2	oo

	The Painters Hand-Book, price			25

	Plaster, How to Use and How to Make, price			1oo

	plumbing Heating Drainage and Ventilating, price		3	00

	Hardwood Finisher, price			00

		'total	$18	75



With this expenditure, to which will require a little brains added, and some application, the country builder may equip himself with sufficient knowledge to become an authority on farm buildings, which should redound to his profit as well as to his fame. London is brim full of excellent ideas that the bright and snappy contractor will avail himself of and his treatise on stone and brickwork contains ample food for all the reasonable wants of country practice. The other books, besides being instructive, will guide the contractor on correct lines of estimating, which, if followed, will prevent him from taking work below its actual value, a custom that has ruined many " A Country Builder."



ANOTHER dispute on a school house case is reported from East Toronto. The School Board having determined to wait until next year before erecting a school building suitable to the wants of its population, trouble arose with the architect. His plans for a four room' section of a I 2 room school were accepted by the Board, the understanding being that the cost should not exceed $6,ooo. The lowest tender received, however, was in the neighborhood of $8,ooo and because of the great discrepancy the Board returned the plans. The architect now asks for some $400, but the Board thinks a tenth part of this sufficient. The matter has been referred to arbitration.

THE Supreme Court of Louisiana held, in the recent case of Mass vs. Succession of Hernandez, that where a contract for a fixed amount is entered into between the owner of the property and a builder according to certain specifications to which a plan is annexed as explanatory thereof, no charge, in the absence of an agreement to that effect, can be made for extra services in the preparation of the plan; that the builder appears in the transaction not as an architect, but as a contractor, and that a builder claiming renumeration over and above the contract price of a building for certain labor and material as having been furnished for extra work, must establish with reasonable certainty that they were used for that particular purpose.

