<doctype type="text">

ated the School of Science as being an institution of about the same status as many of these men.

The era of "articled pupils " is no longer existent, and the meanness of the proprietors of almost numberless offices has brought about this state of affairs. I ask, is it just to a young man after he has attended public school, collegiate, and perhaps university, to enter an office as a pupil, when in reality he is an office drudge?

—who, by the way, is not free to break his part of the agreement as soon as he finds the principal has no time to teach him anything. He must "pick up" as best he can a knowledge of the business out of office hours, as he is kept at specifications, tracing, etc., keeping office tidy, being there if any person happens to call when the proprietor is out. If office work is slack he may be allowed to copy a perspective drawing, which has already been published by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, during his office hours, and when his five years of such drudgery is over he may perhaps be given his railway fare to expatriate himself to the United States, or endure every obstacle possible being raised to prevent his starting an office in Ontario.

Sensible people now do not article their boys who intend to follow the profession of clergyman to a worthy divine, but they send him to school, and parents of would-be architects now do the same. I claim that in this school our architectural students acquire more knowledge in two years than they do in the average office in five years, and on leaving get good appointments in the States.

After calling the attention of your readers to the weak points in the scheme, allow me to suggest a few remedies:

1st. Let the Toronto University or the Hon. Minister of Education grant degrees for architects, which I would suggest be in the following order: A. Arch. (Associate in Architecture), for students ; B. Arch. (Bachelor), for 3rd year students ; M. Arch. (Master) D. Arch. (Doctor). Any person should be allowed to be examined, no matter from whence they came or wherefrom they obtained their knowledge, and a diploma should be given to all who can pass the prescribed examinations.

2nd. Make the owners of buildings, whether such are already built or in process of construction, responsible for damages to employees and other persons having business in the vicinity of such building at the time of total collapse or falling of any part thereof.

3rd. Avoid mentioning that people MUST EMPLOY an architect; the public think the Association of Architects want laws to prevent any person whatsoever from even building a shed in a yard or an addition to a barn unless an architect is to be called in and the inevitable 50harged.

4th. It those architects who have not work enough to keep them and their assistants going all the year round choose to arrange to give instruction (provided they are capable of so doing) to their assistants, let such instruction be paid for by those receiving it; and on the other hand, when an assistant works for an architect his labor is of value, and should be paid for accordingly, either by piece work or by the hour. The best men are the busiest and have no time to teach boys.

5th. If the proprietor of a building is made responsible, and he has employed an architect to put up a safe structure, the proprietor should in turn be enabled to sue the architect for damages should an accident occur.

If the Association will modify the bill on these lines there is no doubt it will pass, and the public will Soon judge fur themselves the merits of different architects,

and no doubt in time the recognized 5 per cent. will go, and less commission will he paid for work requiring but little skill and more for that which does. Apologizing for taking so much of your valuable space,

S. JOHN IRELAND,

Principal Hamilton Art School.

<article title=" PROF. S. H. CAPPER " author="">

PROF. S. H. CAPPER.

IT affords us much pleasure to be able to present to the readers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER the accompanying portrait of the first Professor of Architecture at McGill University, Mr. Stewart Henbest Capper, M.A. (Edin.), A.R.I.B.A.

Professor Capper, who is 36 years of age, and consequently at the zenith of his powers, was educated at the Royal High School at Edinburgh. In 1875 he entered the University of Edinburgh, graduating in 1880 as Master of Arts, with first-class honors in the Department of Classical Literature and being awarded the Pitt Club scholarship in Classics. From 1879 to 1884 he

































PROF. S. H. CAPPER.



acted as private tutor and also as private secretary in the household of the British Plenipotentiary at Lisbon and Madrid, and took advantage of the opportunity to study the architecture of Spain and Portugal. From 1884 to 1887 he studied and travelled in France and Italy, being admitted by examination a student of the Ecole des Beaux Arts, Paris, From 1887 to 1891 he practiced as an architect in Edinburgh, and during this period erected a number of important buildings. In 1891 he was elected an associate member of the Royal Institute of British Architects, and shortly afterwards was admitted a university extension lecturer in connection with Edinburgh University, He has given numerous courses of lectures upon Architecture, both historical and technical, in Edinburgh, Perth and Dundee. In 1896 Mr. Capper was appointed examiner in the Faculty of Arts at Edinburgh University for the department of archaeology and art history.

We have had the privilege of seeing copies of the testimonials presented by Prof. Capper to the governors of McGill University. They bear the signatures of men of the highest educational attainments in the universities and professional societies of Great Britain, France and Spain, and leave little room to doubt the qualifications of the gentleman who has been chosen to instruct the rising generation of Canadian architects. The architectural students of the future are to be congratulated upon the fact that the means of obtaining a thorough architectural training are now available within the boundaries of their own country.

