<doctype type="text">

nine fiscal years ending June, 1895, and does not include any importations for Government use

	Year.	Barrels.	Value.

	1886-7	....	102,450	$148,054

	1887-8		122,402	177,158

	18889		122,273	179,406

	1889-90	....	192,332	313,572

	1890-1	....	183,728	304,648

	1891-2	....	187,233	281,553

	1892-3	....	229,492	316,179

	1893-4	....	234,231	284,964

	1895-5	....	196,281	242,813









<article title=" PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATIONS " author="">



PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATIONS.

THE Toronto Association of Master Plumbers is doing effectual work under the direction of the enthusiastic president, Mr. W. J. Burroughes. Their meetings are now held in Pythian Hall, corner Queen and Victoria streets. Mr. Burroughes has drawn up a draft of an act providing for compulsory examination of plumbers in Ontario. This act, in its present form, is entitled '' An Act to Secure the Registration of Plumbers and the Supervising of Plumbing and Drainage in the Cities of the Province of Ontario.'' It will he submitted for approval to the different associations throughout the province and the Secretary of the Provincial Board of Health before being presented to Parliament. As the act is claimed to be in the interest of the public, Mr. Burroughes hopes to meet with little opposition in the House.

The London Association is one of the most active branches of the Dominion Master Plumbers' Association. We are informed that the membership embraces every legitimate plumber in the city, as well as a number of others located in adjacent towns. The weekly meetings are well attended, and much interest is shown in the proceedings thereof. The president, Mr. Wm. Smith, is unceasing in his efforts to promote the success of the association.

In striking contrast with the London Association is the Hamilton branch, which has not held a meeting since July. While

recognizing the benefits to be derived from an interchange of ideas as thus afforded,

there is an apparent lack of energy on the part of many of the members. It is hoped that during the winter season new life will be infused into the master plumbers of Hamilton.

The plumbers and steamfitters of Great Britain have formed a national association, with a membership of 800.



<article title=" ASPHALT FELTING " author="">

ASPHALT FELTING.—-In order to keep the dampness out of walls and prevent its rising from t he soil, Buscher and Hoffman, of Eberswalde, apply strips of asphalt felting, as wide as the wall, in lengths of about 3 feet. The pieces overlap by a couple of inches ; the pressure of the continuation of the wall, resting on this layer, secures a perfect joint. The manipulation is very simple and easier than the application of liquid asphalt, which in warm weather is not rarely squeezed out again. The insulation is not destroyed when parts of a building settle. The felting has profitably been applied in tunnels and underground structures, and has answered well in the Carlsruhe tunnel, for instance. Old buildings can also be fitted with the felting, which bears a fairly high temperature.

CORRESPONENCE ______ ___

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications must he accompanied by the name and address of the other not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]







HANGING INSIDE BLINDS.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

<article title=" HANGING INSIDE BLINDS " author="Langton">

will you, or some of your well informed readers kindly inform me through your columns as to the best and most economical method of arranging for and hanging two-fold inside blinds. The building in which the blinds are to be hung will be of brick, fourteen inch wall, furred and lathed and plastered On the inside. The windows are 3 6" wide, sashes 13 1/4 thick, double hung, and there are to be heavy inside stools. The blinds are to be of black birch, and not more than of an inch thick, and are to fold back in a box and show as panels on the side of the window when so folded casings are molded and are six inches wide and will show square in the room. I desire to make a nice job of this work, but do not want it to cost too much. Any information through your columns will be appreciated by a

YOUNG CARPENTER IN Distress.



Owen Sound, Nov. 10, 1896.

fin reply to the foregoing, we may say to a ''Carpenter in Distress " that there are many ways of preparing

boxing for shutters" practised in England and in this country more or less costly, and we believe there are among our readers many expert workmen who can give intelligent descriptions of how the work may be (lone with efficiency and economy, and we submit the problem to them with the hope that they will relieve ''A Young Carpenter" of his difficulty.— TI-IF EDITOR.]



INFORMATION REQUIRED BY BUILDERS.

SIR, -- I have read with pleasure the article in your journal, '' Loads and Strength of Roofs." This led me to think of the advantages the builders would get if they had a card giving the weight of the different kinds of roofing material, flooring, stud partition, outside walls, etc., etc., so as to enable the builder to know at a glance the strength required for the rafters, joists, beams, etc., also the exact weight they will have to support. I have many books with those tables and formulas in them, but as they are in most cases worked with letters, I have great trouble to get at an approximate idea of the weight to be supported and the size of joints and rafters required. If you had something with examples in plain figures, then the great majority of the builders would know what to buy, and have no fears for the safety of the building that they are repairing or constructing. I enclose stamp for reply, and oblige.

Your Obedient Servant,

J.	B. D.

Montreal, Nov. 5th, 1896.



[The information asked for by our correspondent is not easily obtainable, and will require considerable research and time to put in shape. We shall make an effort to supply at least a portion of it, however, through this department in the near future. THE EDITOR.



Besides indigo and purple few colors were employed by the ancients, and these were obtained for the most part from the vegetable kingdom, but their purity was so great that they have kept well to our own times, after having undergone for centuries the action of the air and the sun.

