<doctype type="text">



imately, by first finding the number of yards in the partition----one side only and multiplying by the figures given. Example A partition 20 X 9 feet what is its weight ? We find thc partition contains exactly 20 yards, superficial, taking one side of it only, as per rule ; then 133 X 20 2660 lbs. Here we have [33 pounds the weight of one yard of a partition composed of 2" X 4" studding, lathed and plastered on both sides in three-coat work. 20 represents the number of yards, so we have 20 times 33, which gives a total of 2660 lbs.

If the work is only two-coat work, we deduct 27 lbs. from 133, making a constant of 106 lbs. Openings are to be allowed for in these calculations, and the presumption is that all the materials used are dry, and that the mortar is set and hardened. The weight of plastering on one side of a partition, or on the inside of main walls may be put down at 55 lbs. This does not. include lath or studding.

A square yard of a wall formed of 2 X 4' scantling, I" boards, a layer of building paper, half-inch clapboards, lapped, and lathed and plastered inside, will weigh about 99 lbs. From this the weight of any balloon structure may be obtained, taking care to add the weight of the sills, which, if of pine, spruce or hemlock, will weigh about. 27 lbs. to the cubic foot.

The weight of ordinary floors with 2 )( 10' joists,

inch flooring, and plastered ceiling under, will average per square of 100 feet, about 1000 pounds, if all the material is dry.

Brick walls are generally estimated by the number of bricks they contain, or by the 1000 Ordinary bricks, according to Trantwine, weigh about two tons per thousand, and a thousand of pressed bricks weigh two-and-a-quarter tons, therefore it is only necessary to know how many thousand bricks there are in a wall to be able to tell how much that wall weighs.

Of course, the weight of bricks will vary some little, owing to the difference in the clays of which the)' are made ; but the little variation will not affect the figures given to any serious extent. To lay 1000 bricks requires 22 1/2 cubic feet of mortar, and one cubic foot of mortar weighs 1 10 pounds, so that we find that one thousand bricks built up with good mortar weighs altogether 6475 pounds, or nearly three-and-a-quarter tons of twenty hundreds each. To this weight must be added the inside '' rendering," furring, lathing and plastering.

The weight of stone-work differs with each kind of stone used. Sandstones weigh about 132 lbs. to the cubic foot, while limestones weigh 175, and some kinds of granite over 200 lbs. In laying random coursed rough quarried limestones, with good lime mortar and spalls, a solid cubic foot in the wall will weigh 190 lbs., so that a cord of stone measured in the wall at 100 cubic feet, will weigh nineteen thousand lbs. A cord of sandstone in the wall will weigh about 1000 lbs. less, while a cord of boulders or '' hard-heads," whole or broken, will weigh over 21,000 pounds.

These replies cover, to the fullest extent, all the questions asked by our Montreal correspondent





W.	S. K.,'' Belleville, Ont., writes ''In reply to A Carpenter in Distress," in one of your recent issues,

I send herewith a rough sketch of an economic way of preparing a window in a brick wall for inside blinds. By examining the sketch, the enquirer can see how the

work is finished. The distance from A to B should be a little more than one—quarter of the width of the opening ; this will permit the blinds to fit back snug without projecting into the room. The lining may be pannelled if the extra expense is no object, but when strict economy' is the order of the day a plain finish may be adopted, or the lining may be formed of matched and beaded stuff.

It is desired to run the splayed jamb lining down to the floor, this ma)' be accomplished by putting in a stool that will project into the room no further than where the dotted lines show at S. This will make a recess in the wall under the window, which should be filled up to the stool with pannel work. If the splayed jamb lining is pannelled, a rail should be framed in at





























the point where the stool S is situated, as it is not likely that the stiles would be wide enough to receive the projection of the stool.

The sketch, and this description, will, I think, relieve your enquirer from his difficulty Of course there are many other methods of getting over this difficulty', but I know of none that answers the purpose at so small an outlay, but it' any' of your readers know of a better method costing no more, I, along with your enquirer, I am sure, will be glad to hear of it.



<article title=" MONTREAL MASTER PLUMBERS " author="">

MONTREAL MASTER PLUMBERS.

THE Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, met on Thursday', the 3rd inst., in their rooms '' Salle St. Joseph," corner of Sanguinet and St. Catherine streets. The Association has accomplished much valuable work, considering its recent formation. The membership roll contains the names of ninety' members. Much attention has been devoted to sanitary matters, and good results are likely to be achieved in this direction.

The election of officers was proceeded with after the usual preliminaries, and resulted as follows Honorary' President, John Date President, P. J. Carroll ; 1st Vice-President, Alp. Champagne ; 2nd Vice-President,

D.	Sexton ; 3rd Vice-President, Thos. Moll ; Secretary', J. W. Harris ; French Corresponding Secretary,

C.	E. Thibault . English Corresponding Secretary, G.

C.	Denman Financial Secretary, J. A. Sadler; Treasurer, Jos. Gibean. The following were chosen as chairmen of the various committees Sanitary', H. Paddon ; Arbitration, Joseph Lamarche ; Auditing, E.

C.	Mount ; Legislative, P. C. Ogilvie ; Apprentice, [). Gordon.



MR. P. J. cARROLL.

<article title="" author="">

Mr. P. J. Carroll, the new president, whose portrait we present, is one of the most successful and popular men in the trade in Montreal. He has risen from the

