<doctype type="text">

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

<article title=" THE PRACTICAL SIDE OF TRAVELLING " author="Wilson, Needham">

THE PRACTICAL SIDE OF TRAVELLING UNDER this heading Mr. A. Needham Wilson gives

b



the following hints in A. A. Notes to architectural students abroad in search of knowledge

It seems to be a somewhat invidious task to lay down any general rules of procedure for foreign sketching tours, the necessities and circumstances differ so widely according to the line of route of the country traversed that nothing more than personal experiences can be given, and the neophyte must glean what he can from the variety offered him. It has to be borne in mind that the student is about to study architecture produced under a different aspect, under a different climate, and governed by atmospheric conditions totally distinct from those of our own country, and though it may be necessary to lay down some fixed route, or fix upon a list of notable buildings, there must be a temptation to search for untrodden ground. Some notion further than a mere broadening of ideas of future usefulness, must be in the mind of the student, to be gathered from the material he will collect during his tour, and naturally he will pick this up as fancy leads him. Therefore I venture to think the idea of working from some centre is a useful one. More luggage can then be carried, as the bulk can then be left at your base, and bare necessities only taken afield. Sometimes it will be found practicable to live in apartments, or en pension, and then a few luxuries will be found most welcome. To Mr. Bolton's suggestions as to outfit, I have little to add, as I consider them excellent. There are one or two points, however, to which attention might be given, Slow drying water colors will be found very necessary in extremely hot weather, and personally I found two folding campstools indispensable. They are light and easy to carry, and for plotting dimensions on the spot, form a handy trestle for the drawing—board by placing one above the other. For certain work a bamboo rod or reed, 10 or 15 feet long, will be found very useful in measuring to otherwise inaccessible points, These are generally easily procured, and need not be carried from place to place, and, above all, take a sketching umbrella.

Personally speaking, I cannot say I have found such extreme difficulty with regard to credit notes as Mr. Bolton has, as the centres from which I worked had duly ac credited agents, and I certainly never lost by the exchange. It must be understood that I write of certain parts of the south of France, with which I am more intimately acquainted. Living there is extremely cheap, providing that you shun the grand hotels.

My companion and I lived luxuriously at one small hotel for forty francs a week for the two, en pension."

Mr. Bolton appears to stand in great awe of concierge and sacristan, and speaks contemptuously of introductions. I certainly agree with him that the credentials furnished by the Royal Institute are of little use, but the best credentials I had were cards furnished by a government architect to whom I had an introduction. It proved an open sesame" to me to everything. A case in point. I had seen through an archway a court, in a certain city. I applied for permission to sketch. The owner, a noble, was absent. The concierge said it would be all right. We accordingly commenced work. A scion of the noble house turned us ignominiously into the street. We produced our

credentials our passport, our Institute card, our Academy bone, our A. A. ticket, our letter. We implored we threatened to write to the Times ; but the stony-hearted youth (about fifteen) saw us off the premises. We went to our protector and returned armed with a note. Instantly the place was at our feet. Everything is at Monsieur's service." ''Would Monsieur like a table and a chair ? " M. le Comteregaled us with Malaga ; we had the run of the place we sketched old furniture. Madame la Comtesse apologized, and we felt that we were Britons again. Armed with those cards we penetrated places that no Briton had ever seen or heard of. We walked unscathed amid police and "gendarmerie," and even sketched the ancient tower of the '' Maine " at Avignon from a window of the gendarmerie itself. I never bothered with sacristans and concierges. I went invariably to the head authority and procured proper permission. In this I never failed, and as a result was never interfered with. Of course, in travelling from the beaten track, I repeatedly had to seek permission to sketch where no sacristans or guardians existed, and then I found our powerful friend's influence most marked. The permission of the priest or other in charge never failed to secure me from any annoyance. I certainly found it saved instead of wasted time.

Do not let a student go abroad with a fixed idea that the fact of his being an Englishman is sufficient to secure him the entree everywhere, without proper permission. Such conduct causes more trouble and gives us a worse character than many imagine ; and certainly if you differ in creed with that of the church in which you are working, do not offend the susceptibilities of worshippers and authorities by conduct that you would not be guilty of in your own land or church of your own creed. Even if no stipulation to such effect is made, it is expected that von will cease work during Divine Service. Remember that as you act, so it will be better or worse for those who ma follow in your footsteps, and an indifference to others' feelings may cause your successors endless trouble. As a case in point, I may mention that the priest in charge of the grand church of S. Trophime, at Arles, hesitated for some time before giving permission on the grounds that other students had persisted in sketching during service and on Sundays. At St. Gillies, Gard, the cure spoke in terms of strong indignation of the conduct of certain English, who, torsooth, because they were Protestants, seemed to think it unnecessary to respect the feelings of those who differed from them. It may be annoying to break off in the middle of your work, but a little arrangement will obviate this. Is it a large church with a fine west elevation ? sketch outside till the sun drives you in. When service commences, go into the cloisters.

Both clergy and sacristans will consider you if you consider them, and, speaking personally, neither in England or abroad have I ever found the consent given grudgingly by the clergy. Though you may have a right to be in a church, it does not follow that you have a right to sketch.

To turn to another matter do not be content with a superficial examination of a town. The tide of modern improvements may only have covered up much that is worth the seeking. It is there if you will look for it. Nimes, with few exceptions, is a city of plain streets, and yet a mass of rich Renaissance work was found hidden behind the plain exteriors, much of it sketched

