<doctype type="text">



CORRESPONDENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, Communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.

<article title=" THE CONDUCT OF EXAMINATIONS.

" author="Langton, W. A.">THE CONDUCT OF EXAMINATIONS.

TORONTO Dec. 10, 1896.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DEAR SIR,- Your correspondent, Mr. Ireland, in the November number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER expresses a wish ·that intending architects should be examined by " an independent and recognized public body." The Board of Examiners of the Ontario Association of Architects is in reality such a body but being composed chiefly of architects it is possible to assert that is not independent, and perhaps Mr. Ireland means to do so.

The conduct of the examinations was given to the Association by the legislature along with limited public powers. When it was proposed to increase these powers the legislators who expressed themselves as favourable to doing so did not think it necessary to alter the present manner of conducting the examinations, although the Council suggested that the government should take the examining out of their hands. If it should be proposed to put the examinations in the hands of the government, the Association will be not only content but glad.

Yours truly,

W.	A. LANGTON, Registrar.





THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT. <article title=" THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT " author="Baxter, David">

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



SIR, In your Nov ember number Mr. S J Ireland's letter was to me a great surprise -- a double surprise—--in that Mr. Ireland should not have been more familiar with the workings and aims of the Ontario Association of Architects, and that he should also be so unfamiliar with the qualifications for architectural practice.

As regards the 0. A. A., Mr. Ireland wishes we had ''an independent and recognized public examining body " ; is he not aware of the fact that such a body has existed for several years a body as independent as that of the legal, medical or clerical professions, and a body of recognized ability, composed as it is of the best men in the profession in Ontario; and even now for membership the 0. A. A. makes it compulsory to pass certain examinations, and hard ones they are, comprising infinitely more than Mr. Ireland enumerates as necessary. This examining body and these examinations will continue after the amended Bill is passed, and all embryo architects will have to prove themselves for admission just as they have now justice, of course, demanding that practising architects be admitted without examination.

Personally, I thank Mr. Ireland for bringing out these points against us. He states them as public opinions ; I know they are public opinions, for I have repeatedly heard the same lines of argument, and I sincerely wish that the public understood our Bill, understood our workings, understood our history if they did, there would not only be no dissenting voice, but they would favor us. We are not working for self, but for our art, and by forcing our would-be exponents to be properly qualified, we are doing a great good for Ontario architecture a good that will be felt for all time.

In regard to our education, I must take issue with Mr. Ireland on every point, because the system of education in use by the 0. A. A., and proposed to be continued under any additions to our Bill, is the best possible under present circumstances requiring five years' study in an office with three examinations, or graduation at the School of Science with three years in an office and one examination. To this the only advisable addition would be that five year office students should, during the fifth year, attend the School of Science to receive a polishing off in theory.



Mr. Ireland's contention in regard to a boy and divinity is proper for divinity, but if he would analyze architectural and divinity qualifications be would find that the boy, were be never at a church service, never heard a public speech from his birth till his graduation as a preacher, would be of no use in a pulpit ; the school simply teaches him thc laws and history ; his own observation of church services alone will fit and experience him to stand in the pulpit. So also in architecture, which is largely a profession of observation and experience, the boy learns theory at school or studies it up for himself, and can only gain practising knowledge by several years' actual office work.

Mr. Ireland says his school will teach a boy in two years as much as we will learn in five in an office ; well

perhaps. Our offices must be funny places, for gloomy indeed is his picture of our fledglings wearing out five long weary years of their tender young lives in office drudgery, and especially foreboding is the information that after all this slavery they might have acquired as much or more knowledge in two years at an art school. I can assure Mr. Ireland that his ideas, as stated in regard to office training, are entirely erroneous ; if a youth enters a three-year office term a Science School graduate, he starts with a certain quantity of knowledge that the other lacks, who, not a graduate, takes the five-year term, which extra two years are added that he may pick up as fully as possible what thc Science School one knew upon entering, and the office history of the boy runs through the whole gamut, from ignorance to proficiency, from tracing and copying during the first few months to preliminary sketches, perspective rendering, original drawings, details, designing, writing specifications and superintendence, besides becoming thoroughly familiar with all classes of materials. Five years of this in a good office will turn out a tolerably fair architect if the boy be any good. Now to this we add the 0. A. A. requirements of three examinations, thus forcing the boy to systematic study and giving him a thorough test, proving that he can build strongly and well and that he is master of his materials. What more can the public demand, and are they not aware that we have been doing this very thing for several years?



We do not require to alter our Bill all that we require is that the public throw off the shakles of deliberate blindness, study our aims, and they will grant our requests.

As one who has passed the 0. A. A. examinations, I cannot urge too strongly upon all the boys to study, and study hard and pass the examinations, whether or not they intend ever to practice in Ontario ; and to those who intend entering the profession, if their purse strings will admit it, I strongly advise graduation at the School of Science before taking the three-year term which is then allowed, and don't enter the lists unless from pure love of architecture, and in return the 0. A. A. welcomes you.

DAVID GUNN BAXTER.



STRATFORD, Dec. 4, 1896

