<doctype type="text">



ranks to a position of prominence in his chosen line, and at present enjoys the confidence of his confreres and the public alike.

Mr. Carroll was born in Ireland 37 years ago, and at the age of 4 years was brought to Montreal by his parents, where he has since continuously resided. He was educated at old St. Laurence school, and at an early age entered into his apprenticeship under the direction of his elder brother, who had already obtained a foremost position in the trade, being at this time foreman in the shop of John Burns & Co. Mr. Carroll remained at the plumbing and steam-fitting trade with Messrs. Burns & Co. for 11 years, when he and his brother decided to embark in the business on their own account. Twelve years ago they founded the firm of Carroll Bros., but at present Mr. P. J. Carroll is the only member of the firm, his brother having died two years after the formation of the partnership. The busi- 





MR. P. J. CARROLL.







ness has prospered, and at present is one of the leading shops in the trade.

Mr. Carroll is a modest, unassuming gentleman, and combines with these qualities much executive ability, sound judgment and a wonderful tenacity of purpose, and under his direction we predict a most successful year for the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal. He is to be congratulated on being unanimously called by his confreres to fill the most honorable position in their gift, and in electing him to this office they have done honor to themselves and have recognized and rewarded merit.

<article title=" MEETING OF SANITARY COMMITTEE " author="">

MEETING OF SANITARY COMMITTEE.

A MEETING of the Sanitary Committee of the Dominion Association of Master Plumbers was held at the rooms of the local association of master plumbers in London on the 3rd and 4th of December last.

The members of the Sanitary Committee are Messrs.

W.	H. Heard, London; M. Birch, Kingston ; Walter

Mashinter, Toronto ; Adam Hall, Peterboro'; Adam

Clark, Hamilton.

The question of uniformity of sanitary by-laws throughout the Dominion was thoroughly discussed. The advisability and necessity of a Dominion law governing sanitary construction was carefully considered, and the conclusion arrived at by the committee was that, in the interest of the public, as well as the trade, there should be a law embracing the entire Dominion, and the committee will so recommend. It was thought

by some that perhaps it would be best to recommend that action be taken in Ontario as a preliminary step to getting a Dominion act. It was the opinion of the committee that the enforcement of the law should rest with the board of health, and that each local board of health should have at least one plumber as a member.

The inspection by-law was also carefully considered, and an effort made to remedy some of the defects in existing by-laws.

The committee were also strongly in favor of the appointment, in each town and city of sufficient size, of a board of plumbing examiners, whose duty it will be to advise the council or board of health on all matters appertaining to sanitary apparatus and construction, and to suggest such changes as may be necessary from time to time to keep by-laws up to date. Inspectors should be under the control of this board of plumbing examiners, who would also decide and adjust disputes arising from the operation of the by-law. The constitution of this board was also considered. This matter will come up at a subsequent meeting of the committee.

Considerable time was taken up in discussing a model specification, to eliminate as far as possible objectionable features to existing by-laws, said specification to be subject to such changes as the most modern practice and experience dictates, full consideration being given to the proposed by-law in London "To Secure the Better Sanitary Condition of Buildings."

A committee was appointed to confer with the local board of health, and it is hoped that their labors will materially aid the authorities in arriving at a satisfactory enactment.

<article title=" A LONDON PLUMBING ESTABLISHMENT " author="">

A LONDON PLUMBING ESTABLISHMENT.

A DESCRIPTION of the plumbing establishment of Messrs. Smith Bros., London, Ont., appears in a local paper, from which we take the following: The business was established ten years ago by William and John Smith, but since the death of the latter two years ago Mr. Win. Smith has conducted the business under the former name. He is the only plumber in the Dominion holding medals for mechanical ability, which medals are on exhibition at his shop—one being of bronze and two each of silver and gold.

The growth of the business has been such that the present premises, though large, have become too small, and at the beginning of the new year a move will be made to 265 Dundas street, where there will be three floors, 32x75 ft., instead of two floors, 16x75 ft., as at present. The show room in the rear, where plumbing apparatus will be exhibited in working order, will be the finest west of Toronto, and an undoubted credit to the city.

Mr. Smith is the inventor of an apparatus for testing plumbing work, to prove whether the sanitary part of the plumbing in buildings is perfect or not. To show the standing he enjoys among those of his own craft it may be mentioned that he is the vice-president for Ontario of the Plumbers' Association of the Dominion.





In modest houses, where repairing cannot be done often, all papers should be of the quiet sort, with indistinct figures and good, clean, clear tones of colour. Any decided design, such as stripes, or formal, conventional figures, is apt to pall upon the eye before the paper can be renewed.

