<doctype type="text">

<article title=" WHAT A COUNTRY BUILDER SHOULD KNOW " author="Semblant, F. T. H.">

WHAT A COUNTRY BUILDER SHOULD KNOW.

BY F. T. H.

Semblant art shall carve the fair effect

And full achievement of thy great designs.

—Prior.

T

ALKING some time ago to a country builder, or rather to a man who styled

himself a '' builder and contractor," I was somewhat surprised to discover that he had but very little knowledge of the improvements made in building matters during the last ten years. He came to town to buy glass, hardware, paint and nails, for a farm house he was building some twenty miles away ; and he turned up his nose at the hardware merchant who showed him wire nails, loose joint

wrought butts and steel clad mortise locks with solid knobs. He wanted '' no such new fanged stuff in any building he put up." The old cast butt, the clumsy cut 10 penny nail, and the comparatively worthless cast rim lock, and its equally worthless companion, the mineral knob, were to him all that could be desired.

Endeavoring to persuade him of the superior qualities, durability and economy of the later makes of hardware, elicited from him the expression that " he knew his business, and didn't want any city fellow to give him pointers." I dropped him as a hopeless case, and afterwards discovered that he made it a boast that '' he never took any stock in fellows that read books and papers to find out all about building. He learned it all when he was a young fellow, and that is the reason he knows it all."

Unfortunately, too, many country builders are imbued with the same spirit as our friend. They have arrived at a certain point —a wall of prejudice, as it were—-and beyond that it seems impossible for them to get. It is not my purpose to enquire into the reasons of this condition or prejudice, for I do believe there are reasons, psychological or other, that are accountable for the state of mind the country builder seems to drift into, to his own and to his employer's disadvantage, and it will be my object in this short essay to offer some suggestions country brother, by which, I

	to my	-	am persuaded,

if he. adopts them, he may better his own condition and give better and more satisfactory service to those who honor him with their patronage.

As farm houses stables, barns and the other necessary out-buildings on a farm are generally planned by the owner and the builder jointly, or by the builder alone, it is incumbent that the latter should have some knowledge of drafting, that he should, at any rate, be able to sketch on a board with a lead pencil, to some workable scale, a plan and elevation of the proposed work. Such sketches, no matter how rudely executed, if correct to scale, will give the owner an idea of what he is going to get, and to the builder himself they will prove of inestimable value, both as a guide for obtaining his quantities and also as an object lesson in suggesting the best method to set to work to build it.

The country builder should also possess some know-ledge of the fitness of things " a quality that will enable him to design a house, barn or stable with some degree of good taste. At any rate, he will not create a monstrosity. He should have a fair knowledge of figures, and should be especially expert in the menstruation of surfaces, for largely on this knowledge will depend the accuracy of his taking out the quantities, and his consequent estimate of cost. That he should have some knowledge of mason work, limes, mortar and sand, goes without saving, inasmuch as foundations, cellar walls, piers, cisterns and other stone work will often be under his supervision. It follows also, that he should be posted on plain brickwork, even if he constructs nothing more pretentious than a frame building, as he must see that the chimneys, fireplaces and flues are properly and economically put up and finished. If he is fortunate enough to be called upon to erect brick buildings, he should make himself acquainted with the various kind of " bond" used in brickwork, the quality of mortar required, and the necessary terms used, in order that the bricklayer may understand that the contractor knows just what he wants. The same with regard to the plasterer's work. While it is not necessary that he should he a chemist vet he should be fairly posted regarding the qualities of lime and sand so that he would be able to prevent the introduction of interior materials in the work if necessary ; in fact, he ought to be able to see at a glance the difference between good, bad and indifferent materials and fitments of all kinds knowledge he can only obtain by expending effort and study.

As the country builder is generally the person who not only builds, but also who designs the farm house he should possess knowledge enough of sanitary plumbing, drainage and conditions to be able to advise the owner correctly on these important subjects. He should not leave the laying out of the plumbing to a plumber, unless the latter is an expert or has devoted considerable study to the subject ; then, of course, the whole plumbing and drainage had better be left for him to arrange. If the building, whatever it may be, is to be heated with a furnace placed in the cellar or basement, the builder should have a definite understanding with the parties furnishing the furnaces as to the position of pipes, ducts and registers ; for nothing destroys the strength and harmony of a house more than to cut for pipes, ducts and registers, after the building is nearly completed.

As the heating and water service of a house 

are important matters, the builder should inform himself as to the different kinds of appliances, their efficiency, their cost, and the fuel they consume items the house owner will require to know before purchasing-. As wind mills are now in common use among farmers for pumping and other purposes, a knowledge of them is indispensable, and as they enable the house-owner to have a water service if he so desires, it is essential than water pipes should be provided for as the building pro gresses, and as it is likely the builder will be asked to estimate and provide for this service, it follows he should be able to do it intelligently, for if he does not some one will be the sufferer.



While a chemical knowledge of paints, oils and coloring pigments is not necessary, yet the contractor should be able to distinguish the good from the poor, and should have on call a full knowledge of the cost of the various brands. He should also be able to tell his em-

