<doctype type="text">	158	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE RECENT ANN UAL CONVENTION



AT MONTREAL.



<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE RECENT ANN UAL CONVENTION " author="">

THE Province of Quebec Association of Architects met

in annual session on Thursday the 8th inst., at 10 a.m., in their rooms, New York Life Building, Montreal, the President, Mr. A. C. Hutchison, in the chair. Among those present were Messrs. A. C. Hutchison, President ; A. T. Taylor, 1st Vice President ; -J. F. Peachy, 2nd Vice President ; Jos. Venne, Secretary ; Jos. Perrault, Treasurer A. H. Lapierre, Theodore Daoust, Robert Findlay, J. Z. Resther, Councilors ; H. C. Nelson, W, E. Doran, A. G. Fowler, Maurice Perrault,

J. R. Gardiner, J. W. Hopkins, Simon Lesage, E. Mann, E. Maxwell, 6. A. Monette, P. A. R. Labelle, James Nelson, Alphonse Raza, L. Z. Gauthier and James Wright of Montreal ; Chs. Baillarge, j. F. Peachy, F. X. Berlinguet and G. E. Tanguay, of Quebec.

Letters of regret were read from different members.

In a brief address the President called the convention to order.

Reports of the Treasurer and Auditors were received and adopted, also the report of the Council which was

as follows

REPORT OF COUNCIL.



The fifth annual meeting of the Association held in the city of Quebec in October, 1895, was well attended, and the Council

takes this opportunity of acknowledging the generous reception

tendered the Council and members from Montreal who at tended that meeting by their confreres in Quebec, and to testify to the

interest taken in the Association by the members resident in

Quebec.

	Many items of interest to the Association	were discussed at that



meeting, and the following were referred to the Council for its consideration

First The holding of an exhibition of architectural drawings on the occasion of the annual meeting in 1896

Second The preparation of a schedule of Professional charges for the use of members.

Third The preparation of conditions to be observed in competition for public buildings.

Fourth To prepare a standard form of contract.

The Council regrets that owing to the difficulty in obtaining a

quorum of its members many meetings could not be held, and it was unable to accomplish all the work allotted to it they, however, present this report of the work they were able to accomplish.

exhibition.—Early in the summer it was decided to give effect to the resolution of the Association to hold an exhibition of architectural drawings, and it was resolved that the scope of the exhibition should be widened so as to include modern artistic work applicable to architecture, and a loan collection of antiques.

The preparation for this exhibition has, during the last three months, occupied most of the time of the Council and of members of the Association whom they associated with them to assist in making the necessary arrangement

As the funds of the Association could not be drawn upon to meet the expense of such an exhibition a number of the members have subscribed to a guarantee fund which it is hoped will defray the cost.

The Council leave to the members to judge, when the exhibition is opened this evening, as to whether it is a success or not, bearing in mind that most of the drawings are the individual work of the members, and if the exhibition is successful the Association as a whole will benefit by it.

The Council would gratefully acknowledge the help extended to it by the Art Association of Montreal in promoting and carrying out the exhibition, and in placing their galleries at our disposal. Without the assistance thus rendered it would have been impossible for your Council to have carried out such an  undertaking.

SCHEDULE OF CHARGES. —--The schedule of professional charges has been prepared and is now in the hands of t the printer and

copies will be mailed to members in a few days. The procuring of the signatures caused considerable delay iii its preparation.

COMPETITION FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS--The preparation of conditions to govern members in competition for public buildings received but slight consideration owing to the difficulty in obtaining meetings of the Council and to the political events during the year which prevented securing the co-operation of public officials.

ASSOCIATION COMPETITIONS. At the request of the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER the Council named a



standing committee consisting of the president, vice-presidents

and secretary during their term of office to whom all competitions under the auspices of the Association or of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be submitted.

STUDENTS ASSOCIATION --The students connected with the Association formed themselves into an organization for the advancement of their interests and for mutual improvement in their studies.

With a view to promote these objects the Council gave the use of



the rooms and library free, only stipulating that the cost of lighting and necessary attendance should be paid, and that students availing themselves of these privileges should register their names in conformity with the by—laws.

For some unexplained reason the meetings have not been continued, and the privileges granted have not been taken advantage

of.



STANDARD FORM of contract.——Owing to the difficulty before

referred to of holding meetings because of the non-attendance of

members of Council, the preparation of a standard form of contract could not be undertaken, and this matter will have to be referred 10 the new Council.

AMENDMENTS OF CHARTER.—The members of the Association resident in Quebec presented a number of amendments which they wished to have made in the charter, but after careful consideration the Council deemed it best not to approach the Legislature for the present.

AGUE BILL.— When this bill was before the last session of the Legislative Assembly, the Council, as oil former occasions, asked for its repeal. Although their request was not granted, such modifications were made as to do away with the most objectionable clauses.

ART COMMITTEE A committee appointed by the Council to confer with the corporation of Montreal and request the appointment of a Standing Art Committee had interviews with the mayor The mayor expressed himself in favor of the appointment of such a committee and promised to bring the matter before tile Council and aldermen, but so far no definite action has been taken, and the matter still remains in abeyance.

BUILDING BY-LAWS. The committee regret that the corporation of Montreal have not vet given consideration nor effect to the building by-laws prepared by the committee appointed by it, and on which so much time and labor was expended. It is hoped that the corporation may at an early date adopt the by-laws as submitted to them.

EXAMINATIONS FOR REGISTRATION.- At the semi-annual examinations held in Quebec in the month of January, three candidates presented themselves for examination for registration——all of whom, namely Messre J. E. Payette, J. Forget Despatie and P. A. R. Labelle—succeeded in passing in the subjects prescribed in the by-laws, and received their diplomas. At the same examinations one candidate, M. P. Leveque, presented himself for matriculation examination, and was successful in passing.

At the semi-annual examinations in July only one candidate entered for matriculation M. Rene Frechette. As he was from Quebec the examiners did 1101 think it worth while for him to undertake the journey when there were no other candidates. It was therefore proposed that the candidate present himself for examination next January, and that if he succeeded in passing his time of study would date from July last.

The Council have to report the following case which has been to them and in which they could

presented	not grant the request

made without violating the act of incorporation and by—laws. The case is as follows. A student passed the matriculation examinations and then entered the office of an architect who is not registered. Having completed his term of probation, he wishes to enter for filial examination and if successful, be registered.

As this case presents difficulties that the Council did not feel warranted in overcoming without violating our charter, it is referred to this meeting.

LIBRARY -No additions have been made to the library during the year, except "Les Grands Prix d'Architecture," engraved arid published by A. L. F. Vandoyer and L. P. Baltard, Paris, 834, donated b M, J. Venne, and the proceedings of the Ameri—

