<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Chimney Building " author="">

Chimney Building.

should be laid carefully away in such a manner as to prevent them from warping, bending or twisting, and put where no water can get at them. The keys should be tied with fine wire to the knobs, and the pins belonging to the loose butts should be fastened to the butts also by a short strand of fine wire. These simple precautions may be the means of preventing much inconvenience and annoyance when it becomes time to again put the doors in service. All of the foregoing relates more particularly to paneled storm doors, but the same hints and suggestions to a large extent, are applicable to the ordinary bat ten door, with the exception, perhaps, of the locks, for where a batten door is used for a storm door, a thumb latch is generally employed in place of a lock, and where this is the case, it is the better way to get the best thumb latch for the purpose obtainable.



THERE is no part of a house that requires more care and thought in its construction than the chimney if good results are desired. Yet there is no part in which so little skill, and what may be termed building science, is usually displayed, as in the construction of chimneys. Nothing contributes to the health and comfort of a household in a greater degree than a good chimney, one that will do its duty without having to be forced or doctored. To obtain the best results possible, so far as known at present, the following suggestions should be considered and adopted where the conditions will admit:

On no account put a chimney on a flimsy foundation. If, as is sometimes the case, it is necessary to build a chimney from a stand, it should be seen that the plank or timber forming the uprights of the stand, rest on a good solid foundation, and not on the flooring or joists as is frequently done. Many buildings have been destroyed by fire originating between the ceiling joists and roof, because of defective foundations, which have settled, and the brickwork of the chimney shaft having been held in between the joists or roof timbers, has separated at the junction, thus leaving an opening from the flue to the woodwork, which, being dry, was easily ignited by the first spark or flame that found its way through the break. A chimney shaft should never be built so that ledges of brickwork rest on either studding in tile walls, joists or roof timbers. This is frequently done, but it is a bad and a dangerous practice. When built from the ground the foundations should be deep enough in tile ground to be below the action of frost, and if built so as to form part of an outside or cross wall, it should be well tied or bonded with the stonework of such wall.



When it can be done the flue should be as nearly perpendicular and straight as it is possible to make it, and should be smooth inside, without angles, corners, jogs or contractions, and at no point in its entire length should wood of any kind be near it. Wherever the shaft passes through a floor or a roof, the floor or roof should be "trimmed around the brickwork, and a space of an inch left clear between the wood and the brickwork this space can easily be made water-tight in the roof, by proper flashing. If the building should be a frame or a "balloon" one, the brickwork should be kept at least four inches from the outside of the wall. The flue should be "parged" or plastered with a mortar composed of one part fresh cow dung and three parts of

ordinary cow dung well mixed and applied the usual way This mixture should be made as required and used before it has time to set and become hard. A flue so treated will present a smooth glassy surface, hard as a rock, and soot will not accumulate on its sides, while the draft will be much improved. The draft may be further improved by increasing the area of the flue about an inch every ten feet in its height. This increase of area must not be made suddenly or by a jog, but gradually all the way up, from bottom to top. Under no consideration whatever should joists or timbers of any sort, or for any purposes, rest on or in the brickwork of a chimney, for they simply make hidden incendiaries that may some day lead to the destruction of the whole building. An ordinary flue intended for service in a dwelling house where wood or soft coal is used for fuel should contain an area of about 125 square inches, and not less than 96 square inches. If hard coal is used as fuel, the latter number of square inches of area will answer very well. Each fire-place or stovepipe should have a separate flue, for, if a number of stove-pipes enter the same flue the draft is sure to be defective and troublesome. Wherever it may be necessary to pierce a flue to suit a stove-pipe, the flue should be enlarged at least one-fourth in order to enable it to perform the extra work imposed on it by the addition of another fire.



If a fire-place is connected with the chimney, its hearth should be built independent of the floor timbers, and should rest on brick or stone work and should be filled up nearly level with the floor with concrete, on which hearth tiles or neat cement should be laid to the

proper height. In constructing the fire-place care should be taken to contract the throat and keep it well forward, so as to he directly over the fire. In making the contraction, experience has shown that the best system is to start to draw in the brickwork or contract the throat, just at the haunches of the jambs, and make the contraction from both sides, on an angle of 45 degrees, continuing on this angle until the desired flue area is reached, then continue the flue as described in the foregoing. The chimney breast should be made to measure in the room exactly 4 ft. 11 in., so that when a half inch of mortar is applied to both sides by the plasterer, the breast will measure just five feet, which is the regulation size for the width of mantels. The plastering, of course, is rendered on the bare brick work. If a pressed brick mantel is intended to form the fire-place it may vary somewhat from the measurement given, the dimensions, however, may be obtained from the firm from whom the pressed bricks for mantels are to be purchased.



While bricks on edge are permissible for dividing flues from o e another, the outside wall of the chimney ought never to be less than six or eight inches thick. A six inch wall may be constructed by laying the outer course of bricks on their flats, and the inner course on their edges and when the courses are all on one plane on top, lay a course of "headers' chopped off to six inches in length, putting the broken end inside the flue as it will act as a bond for the parging. For an 8" wall the bricks may be laid as headers and stretchers every alternate course. The best hard faced bricks will be used for that portion of the shaft that will be exposed to the weather, and good sound bricks should be used

