<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER  7

Graecia Probably the most interesting of these ruins is that of Fort Euryelus, situate at the extreme west of the ancient city, on the apex of a ridge of rock from which the whole of the city could be overlooked. All that now remains of this ancient fort are the foundations and base of the four towers which formed the angles of the fort. These foundations are of the most massive description and composed of huge blocks of dressed stone. Extending from one of the towers, the wall which enclosed the south side of the city may be traced along the crest of a ridge which formed a natural defense on that side ; this was also composed of large blocks of hewn stone. Below the tort itself the rock is honeycombed with passages wide enough to permit the passage of cavalry, and vaults to contain stores. These passages and the fort were cut off from the continuation of the rocky ridge by a deep moat cut through the solid rock. This moat was crossed in times of peace by a movable bridge supported in the centre on a pier of hewn masonry, which stands to the present day. About an hour and a half's walk from the fort, over a plain covered with piles of stone, presenting a most desolate appearance, we come to the remains of an extensive theatre As we pass over the piles of stone in our walk, we can trace here and there the foundations of houses of the ancient city, and can define the width of some of its streets. Of the architecture of the theatre nothing remains. The foundation of the proscenium and stage and the semi-circular tiers of seats, cut in the rock on the face of a hill, can be distinctly seen. In rear of the theatre a small mill daily grinds corn, the power being two turbine wheels, driven by water, conveyed to them through one of the ancient Greek aqueducts.

 Two large quarries, from which stone for the ancient city was obtained are of great interest, on account of the extent of the excavations and the fantastic caves 'and grottoes that were formed in the rock as the stone Was extracted. The marks of the picks used in cutting the rock (the same kind of tool as used in Sicily at the present day) are plainly to he seen

besides the theatre at Syracuse, there are the remains of a Greek theatre at Taormina on the east coast but as the columns and walls now remaining have been restorations during the Roman period, they may be classed as Roman rather than Greek architecture.

In the long interval that elapsed between the over— throw of the Greek power and the advent of the Saracen in the island, an interval during which Carthage and

were in succession its rulers, followed by barbarians ostrogoths, and then by Byzantine power, none of whom, except the Romans, left any imprint of their art, the remains of Roman art are very meager with the exception of the remains of a few arches of an aqueduct, an amphitheater, a bath and small temple, and a few isolated columns at Syracuse, and the remains of  reek theatres restored and Romanized at Taormina and Catania, there is little else to tell that this great power ruled over Sicily.

With the advent of the Saracens in the 9th century, a new life was given to the dead, lifeless art that preceded their coming. New forms of construction and ornamentation were introduced mosques took the place of the Christian churches which had superseded heathen temples. Of the mosques and other buildings of the Saracen period we have no remains by which to judge

·of the style. We can, however, judge somewhat of its spirit by the influence it exerted upon the Christian or

Norman architecture which superseded it in the 11th and 1 2th centuries and still later upon Gothic art.

In the 11th century the art of the east and west first came in contact in Sicily, and while the crescent went down before the cross, the change did not annihilate Saracenic art. Mosques gave place to churches, but the influence and spirit of eastern art remained, softening and modifying Christian architecture, represented by the heavy somber Norman with which it first came in contact. Under this influence the heavy massiveness that characterizes Norman architecture, as practised in its Northern home, gives place to lighter forms and modes of ornamentation, and the dome takes the place of the semi— circular vault, or is used in conjunction with it, In the cathedrals of Palermo and Montreal, more particularly in the east ends, we find examples of this modifying influence in the forms of mouldings, and in the decorations of the plain surfaces of the walls and arches by the insertion of black marbles in geometrical forms. In a more marked degree we see the same influence in the church of St. John, near the Royal Palace, erected during thc Norman period, and in which denies are the dominant feature. The church of La Matorana, near the centre of the city, is a curious mixture of Norman and Saracenic details. As a mosque occupied the site of the present church, the materials of it were no doubt used in the erection of the Christian building. Adjoining the church is a Norman chapel in which the nave is covered by these semi-circular domes, supported on six columns of marble, two of them taken from some heathen temple, two of Saracenic or Byzantine design, and the other two of Norman design ; in each case the columns rest on Norman bases. The arches and domes of this chapel have been stripped of their mosiac, so that their construction is plainly seen.

In the royal palace, the Capella Palatena, also built in the Norman period, is one of the most interesting chapels to be seen anywhere. It consists of a have with aisles, the east bay of nave being rather larger than the others, and surmounted by a dome. The whole of the walls, arches, vaults and domes are covered with the most beautiful mosaics, surpassing even those of St. Marks in their richness. These mosaics, with the details of the nave columns, the pointed arches, and the screens enclosing the choir, all indicate the preponderating influence of Saracenic art in this most beautiful chapel.

Gothic architecture scarcely affected Sicily. With the exception of the cathedrals at Monreale and Messina and one or two churches and part of the cathedral at Palermo, there are no examples of any note. Even in these examples Saracenic art is so interwoven with the gothic as to make it difficult or almost impossible to fix the date of erection by the architectural features, as can so readily be done in buildings of the Gothic period in France and Britain.

Of the buildings of the Renaissance I will not write. While there are a few good examples here and there, none of them are of any special note.



THE Court of Appeal at Toronto has recently given judgment sustaining a former judgment of the Ottawa courts in awarding damages to Mr. Brune, the contractor for the isolation hospital on Porter's Island, against the city of Ottawa, for breach of an implied contract on their part to return to the contractor the work in the same or in no worse condition than at the time of the suspension of the said work by the defendants.

