MR. A. T. TAYLOR, F. R. 1. 13. A.



President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

<doctype type="text">

be the general run of building for which architects are not required.

So that after all we have to look to the architect for the character of building in the country, and we hope that he has made the most of his recent leisure and of such opportunities as have been offered to him to prepare himself for his responsible function of creator of

property.	____

<article title=" MR. A. T. TAYLOR, F. R. I. B. A.

" author="">

MR. A. T. TAYLOR, F. R. I. B. A.

WE have the pleasure of being able to present to our readers an excellent portrait of the new president of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, Mr. Andrew T. Taylor, F. R. 1. B. A. Mr. Taylor has been a most enthusiastic and stedfast worker in connection with the P. Q. A. A. for the promotion of the interests of architecture in the province of Quebec, and has thus honestly won the position of honor to which he was elected at the last annual convention of the Association.

Mr. Taylor was born and educated in Edinburgh, Scotland. He served his articles with Messrs. Pilkington & Bell, and subsequently entered the office of the City Architect of Aberdeen. Following this he was for a time with Mr. Joseph Clarke, F. S. A., in London, diocesan architect and surveyor for Canterbury, where he had large experience in the restoration of old parish churches and church work generally.

Mr. Taylor was elected an Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects in 1878, and was made a Fellow of the Institute in 1889. He studied in the architectural school of the Royal Academy under Mr. Phene Spiers, gaining the Royal Institute medal in 1874 and again in 1881 and also a Soane medallion medal. He passed the examinations and qualified for the post of a district surveyorship. After having travelled over the continent of Europe for some time he entered upon the practice of his profession in London, where his partner, Mr. Gordon, now is.

In Canada a large number of buildings have been erected from his designs, amongst others, the Macdonald Engineering and Workman Buildings at McGill College, also the Physics Building, the Redpath Library, the most recent Medical Building, and just now, the new Chemistry and Mining Buildings at the same place; Bishop's College School, Lennoxville ; the Diocesan Theological College, Montreal—an illustration of which appears in this number—many banks, including buildings for the Bank of Montreal in Vancouver, Calgary, Regina, Perth, several in Montreal, including the entire renovation of the head office of the Bank of Toronto, Montreal ; the renovation of the Montreal General Hospital ; a large number of residences, including the magnificent house of the Hon. Senator Drummond; the new Art Gallery, Montreal, etc.

Mr. Taylor obtained the second place and premium in the important competition for the Glasgow Municipal Buildings, in which over 116 competitors took part, and was selected to be one of two experts in the competition for the British Columbia Government Buildings at Victoria, He is Professor of Architecture at the Presbyterian College, Montreal, has been a member of Council of the Art Association for many years, academician of the Royal Canadian Academy, etc.

Mr. Taylor is also the author of a book on the "Towers and Spires of Sir Christopher Wren," and joint author of the series of "Dominion Drawing Books" used in the Protestant schools of the province of Quebec.



THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' BILL To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, Your desire to obtain special legislation for architects in Ontario is to be commended, but it seems to me that in the form this bill has been presented and as often rejected by the Ontario Legislature, such a law would not be so much in the interest of the public as in favor of few of the already self-dubbed architects. As a teacher of architecture I decidedly wish there was an examination conducted by an independent and recognized public examining body, of such a nature as would be a guarantee that those who had passed this test of knowledge were worthy to rank on an equality with other professional men; and whatever subjects were optional, it should he compulsory that the candidates pass an examination in the strength of the various building materials and the modes of constructing the same in a scientific manner; that is, having due regard to the strength, strain, and stress of the several parts, individually, and of the whole when combined as a whole, so that such structures might be safe under all ordinary conditions of loading and wind stress on the one hand, and free from undue waste of material on the other. The public, I feel assured, would be in favor of, instead of being opposed to, such legislation.

You seem to infer that the public are not opposed to the passage of the bill. 1 know for a fact that decided opposition exists, and have tried to ascertain why this is so, and find 1st, as the bill was framed the present self-dubbed architects were to be architects still, but with authority to formulate all sorts of conditions to prevent younger and better trained men from entering the

ring;" 2nd, the bill as I understand it demands that candidates must have attended the School of Science in Toronto or have served five years in the office of a self-dubbed architect, and they have in consequence associ

