<doctype type="text">

CUTTING STONE WITH WIRE ROPE. <article title=" CUTTING STONE WITH WIRE ROPE " author="">

THOSE who have indulged in deep sea fishing know how the fish line cuts deeply into the hard wood of THE gunwale as it is hauled in while taut. Even an iron protection, after a time, shows the wear of the rope, which is comparatively soft. This, says an exchange, gives the clue to an invention of an Albany quarryman for cutting stone. Instead, however, of hemp, he proposes to use wire rope, and with this he will carve the marble and stone right out of its native bed. The wire is wound in strands and has a very rough surface, powerful machinery gives a strong and steady strain, and the stone, yielding to the constant wear, parts, with smooth edges. lt. would be easy enough to cut the blocks after they are removed from the quarry, but where the cleverness of the inventor comes in is in devising mechanism that can be applied to the stone while in the quarry. This is effected by sinking two parallel channels in the quarry to a depth of little greater than that of the lowest level of the stone to be cut. The channels may be from 20 to 100 feet, or more, apart. At the bottom of each is made a small hole to receive the foot ends of the shatts of the machine. This is the only preparation of the quarry that is necessary. The ropes, which are coiled on huge drums, are then passed around the channels, and as the drums revolve the cutting proceeds. Suitable brakes are provided for the regulation of the speed and pressure. The ordinary speed of the strand is 800 feet a minute, so that a mile length of it passes in six minutes. While the strand is moving, crushed stone or chilled shot and water can be introduced to increase the attrition. Far better, however, than either of these is a composition obtained from the tailings of a magnetic iron separator, which costs about one-tenth as much as the chilled shot. It does not leave the lines caused by the shot, and it can be used over and over again.



ITALIAN BRICKWORK. <article title=" ITALIAN BRICKWORK " author="">

THE late Mr. Street, a great authority upon Italian brickwork, points out in his work on "Brick and Marble Architecture" to what a great extent red brick is used with stone. Italian bricks are rather larger than ours, but not of better quality ; the joints are wide, generally not less than half-an-inch. The bricks used for windows, doorways, and other ornamental features, are of finer quality and moulding.

Those who know Italian examples of brick arches and tracery are aware that the cusping of arches is of brick, set in the same radiating lines as an arch, and cut and rubbed to the outline required. He says, ''In nearly all cases where brick is used for tracery, it is in the shape of plate tracery. The tympanum of the arch is filled in with a mass of brickwork, through which are pierced the arches over the several lights of the window and these are supported on marble or stone shafts, with carved capitals instead of monials; and above these sometimes, as in the windows at St. Andrea, Mantua, are three cusped circles, sometimes only one ; or else, as in the cathedral at Cremona, the plain black tympanum is relieved by the introduction of a panel of terra cotta bearing the cross on a shield whilst round its outer circumference delicately treated, though large cusping, defines the outline of the arch." Outside the arch sometimes a red brick label 2½ inches wide is introduced. In Mantua and Asti these narrow bricks are set between rings of brick and stone voussoirs.

EARLY ENGLISH BRICKWORK. <article title=" EARLY ENGLISH BRICKWORK " author="">

THE Eastern Counties are remarkable for some excellent specimens of early English brickwork. Little Wenham Hall, Suffolk, built in the latter part of the 13th century, shows different sizes of bricks ; these are mixed with stone and flint in parts. The bricks are of Flemish shape, though some resemble Roman bricks or tiles, and the color varies. In many examples of English brickwork flint is introduced in the form of panels, and this kind of walling is known as " flush work." Nearly every important church is of this mixture of brick, or of stone and flint. Layer Marney Hall, Essex, is a noted example of brickwork. The great gate-house of three storeys, flanked by octagonal turrets, with battlements and parapets, and window mullions, exhibit an advanced stage of brickmaking and workmanship. Respecting the size of English bricks, those of Little Wenharn Hall measure 9 3/4 inches in length by 4 3/4 inches wide, and 2 14 inches thick. Those made in Edward II.'s time measure 10 and 12 inches long by and 6 inches wide. The ''great brick " of 1734 measured 12 inches long, 6 inches wide and 3 inches thick. Portions of Hampton Court Palace show some beautiful examples of English brickwork, although a process of washing which was recently undertaken does not increase the charm of the building.







INCREASING THE RESISTANCE TO FIRE OF WROUGHT IRON PILLARS. <article title=" INCREASING THE RESISTANCE TO FIRE OF WROUGHT IRON PILLARS " author="">

THE following are the general conclusions arrived at by a commission appointed by the Hamburg Senate to examine and report upon the resistance to fire offered by wrought iron pillars used in construction They withstand fire very imperfectly, their stability being quite destroyed at a temperature of about 600 Cent., and the advantage of filling them with concrete is so slight as to be scarcely worthy of consideration. The case is, however, far different with outer coatings of refractory or non-conducting materials, which have proved capable of protecting the metal from a dangerously high temperature during a certain space of time, and, consequently, of affording effective protection against fire. The substances which appear to have exerted the best effect are the cork composition of Herren T. Ganzweig and Hartmann, and xylotile encased in sheet iron, which substances give out inflammable gases for two hours and a half, leaving a carbonaceous residue that is not destroyed by the steam from the fire hose. A pillar thus coated only gives way after being exposed to the fire for four hours, while seventeen minutes suffice to destroy it if uncoated when similarly heated. Next to the above named substances comes the Monier concrete, laid on in a coat of 40 mm. (1 1/2 inch) thickness, which preserves iron for nearly two years and a half, while plaster of Paris and asbestos cement only give poor results. Journal of the Society of Arts.



PAPYROLITH FLOORS. —According to Cosmos, floors are now being put down at Chemnitz, Saxony, which are non-conductive of heat, have no joints, and do not resound under the foot. They are made of a mass of paper reduced to powder, which, when melted with water, becomes a paste like plaster of Paris, and may take the place of artificial stone, cement concrete or parquetry, being all in one piece and polished.

