<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	13

<article title=" POINTS FOR YOUNG CONTRACTORS " author="Baxter, David G.">

POINTS FOR YOUNG CONTRACTORS.

By David G. BAXTER.



The lids are ivy, grapes in cluster lurk

Beneath the carving of the curious work.

DRYDEN



W

HAT apprentice boy in the building trades, let him belong to what line he may, if possesses one grain of inherent ambition, does not look forward to the dim and distant future with a burning desire that he, like his principal, shall be a contractor, an employer of men, a purchaser of material, a director of works yet little seems he to dream of the hard study the unremitting work, anxiety and worry, the rough unsympathetic buffeting he must pass through before he obtains his final settlement on his first job, nor that the harder he studies in the following lines, the more he is guided by the following facts, the more satisfactory this settlement will be, the more gratifying all future settlements shall be found.

Every effort is the result of some cause. A man decides to take contracts, to become a contractor—there must be some cause leading this man's brain into this groove and producing from him a contractor. Will he succeed or will he not? It all depends upon his ability, his resources, his education, yet affected and modified to a great extent by that cause, that chain of circumstances may we call it, that led him into this branch of human endeavor. This man would not go into the dry goods or into the grocery business because he knows that he does not understand either of them, and that he would naturally' be unsuccessful. For a like reason he should not undertake to set up as a contractor unless he understands fully and completely that line of contracting he intends to take up. Throughout the country we find men without any previous preparation taking or endeavoring to take contracts because they are out of work through hard or dull times affecting their former contractor employers or because they have become dyspeptically dissatisfied with things in general and with ordinary hard work in particular. These men float aimlessly around figuring on proposed jobs, and having no previous reputation, are forced to take what work they can manage to get at ruinously low prices, much to the detriment of good work and to the injury of reliable, established contractors These men are today working day work and to—morrow contract work we cannot call them '' contractors," but must designate them ''jobbers," and as such dismiss them from consideration

There is another class who, with inborn wish to succeed and to make the world brighter and better, before commencing business study for years their work in its every phase, its every form and give it—their chosen life work—the full consideration and deliberation that it deserves these, when they do start out, instill confidence, and in confidence get better prices and more satisfactory settlements titan the inert who without previous preparation, astatine to take contracts because they were dissatisfied workmen.

It is to this class of ambitious men that these words are addressed, especially to those located in places outside the larger centers of civilization, when the question of what or what not to do, as preparatory for the future, is often a very serious own

 with many young men in the building trades, in whose breasts is firmly implanted a desire to excel. I do not want to be interpreted as saying that a building mechanic suddenly thrown out of work should do nothing till some contractor can give little work——that he must not take work direct from the layman himself—far front it let him do anything and everything in his power to make an honest dollar, but I do most strongly dissuade Item from thinking of becoming a permanent contractor or firm, himself as principal taking anything except sittall repairs and such like, unless he be thoroughly equipped for the work. This for his own good. lit regard to the omnipresent jetties of dissatisfaction, the sootier It take his departure for the sunny slopes where the woodbine twitch, the better for all.

A contractor to be successful in turning out good work and in making money, must possess a great amount of practical ability'; he must thoroughly understand practically every branch of his work in its ever-changing phases ; besides he must have acquired a fair smattering of the theoretical side to understand if it to calculate , the laws of strength an(l stability If he be a brick— layer he flutist have an idea of the print piles of found it ions arches piers, buttresses, etc., besides a rough know ledge of the chemical and physical properties of limes, cements and other materials. If he be a carpenter, a knowledge of the governing principles of roof and other trusses, beams, columns, etc. , is indispensable and an intimacy with the nature of woods is also essential If he be a plumber a familiarity with sanitary scietice and an insight into the laws of traps, vents flow of water and a hundred and one other points is imperative and so on through every' trade in short we are brought face to face with the survival of the fittest ultimatum--that to attain to full access a contractor most understand all about his particular line of work that he can learn by watchful experience and by incessant unremitting study' during his spare moments.

It may be said that it is impossible for a contractor to study any theory because his education is as a rule such that it does not fit him to understated formulas and technical terms, and even could he elucidate them, he as a rule cannot spare the time. All that can be said in reply is, that if he has the slightest desire to get to the top of the ladder he will fitted the time or make it, and It will repair or replenish his education up to the point which is necessary to understand the said formulas and technical terms. This can be no very difficult task, for in the market there are hundreds of plain, simple, reliable books on each trade, easily gotten hold of and as easily understood, teaching the computation of strains and bow to meet them, the guiding rules, etc., in such simple form

that the most ordinary education can fully grasp them. Then again he will contribute greatly to his own interests by subscribing to a couple of trade journals devoted to his own line and to at least one architectural paper These will keep him in touch with new methods and practices being perfected or brought omit and with newly introduced materials tools and other mechanical devices. In addition, lie should be the possessor of a library of trade catalogues which lie should study carefully and repeatedly. Technical journals supplemented by' trade catalogues at without doubt the very best educative mediums that a contractor or mechanic can possess. The more knowledge a contractor can acquire time more confidence lie naturally will receive front his employees, and this knowledge lie should try as far as possible to transit to them lie should endeavor to make them thinkers and students as well as workers.

A thorough acquaintance with business methods is imperative. Book-keeping, banking, exchange, correspondence, etc., should be to the contractor familiarities This knowledge can be easily acquired if both eyes be kept opt and a little assistance be sought front some qualified friend or a short time might be profitably spent in some good business college, to more than merely enough to acquire simply a rough proficiency in business practices , note would only be a waste of time. On this score of business methods the embryo contractor need suffer no uneasiness, for these points are so very easily' acquired and from so many source

The acquisition of a reliable unfailing judgment of human nature is of inestimable advantage The power to judge character and motive in employer or employee is a very beneficial adjunct to success , it teaches the contractor the various whims and caprices of his men and just how to handle each individual one so as to get from him the greatest of perfect work in the shortest possible time This faculty comes quite naturally to some, but it can be easily acquired by' all ; any rule for its study other titan "watch faces" would be hard to give.



Interpretation of plaits and a knowledge of the customary terms used in specifications is of course an absolute necessity. Let our embryo contractor look over and study' every plan he can possibly lay his fingers on, at-md a friendship formed with some architect's clerk will be a great benefit in the way of explanations of lining and coloring, use of scales, rules for estimating, and many other valuable points.

Then there is what may be called the legal aspect. An acquaintance with the law relating to contracts, liens, garnishes, etc., will save a great deal of troublesome uncertainty amid worry. A wonderful amount of information on this point may be obtained from reading the various technical journals. That this is a permit of great moment to contractors as well as to architects seems to be recognized by these papers, which are giving a good deal of attention to it by publishing particulars in general and judgements it building cases. Take an interest in at-md carefully follow all trials of building cases that you possibly- can, especially those in your own locality, and note the legal permits brought dint by counsel and judge.

It is, of course necessary before beginning business to have a certain amount of cash capital, at least enough to carry' through the first few jobs till returns begin to come in, amid in no case should the new beginner allow himself to be seduced into taking more work that his capital will warrant, to matter how glittering the prospect, to matter how sure the success may appear. His ability and willingness from the start to pay promptly' for materials will engender confidence in, amid reliance on him by the supply dealers, and when he conies to take larger contracts it will be pleasantly' surprising how his custom will be sought and how much better the bargains he can take than cant his slip—shod brother contractor who has no such reputation.

Estimating correctly' is a very vital permit with any contractor. A faulty imitate may mean a very heavy' loss or it may' be the mittens of throwing hint of the work. Estimate carefully, considering every point iii the plans and specifications miss nothing Low estimates are often caused by an improper conception of what is to be done, a loose consideration of the values of different features ; get the quantities amid qualities correct and the values as low as hiossihile, amid if this does not secure the work let the other fellow have it and welcome. Never sign a contract before again considering the amount amid ('lass of work to be dot-me amid materials to be supplied amid shield at any time sortie unscrupulous proprietor request that the job be taken at a certain reduction from the tendered price, don't jump it Consider it first ; don't take work for the sake of work When figuring make out the quantities iii tabulated form, entering every article, every item with its estimated valtie opposite all hieing domie in a regular form

—each proposed job separately. Whether the job be secured or not keep all of these estimates in some permanent shape, for they will he a record of the past and a valuable guide for time future. While the work is progressing for each building separately', keep track of every article sent to the ground every article returned, amid a con-ed account of all labor permit on the work ; emitter the cost Opposite each item This record will fill a two—fold purpose

—that of showing the relation between estimated and actual cost, being time loss or gain on the whole or on each item, at-md also teaching a most valuable lesson for future tendering.

Study' the markets, the rise at-md fall in hires of materials not only in your own line but generally in all other lines, and particularly see that the technical journals you subscribe to give you the regular market quotations up to date, of course discounts and freight rates change the face of matters considerably, butt the prices quoted will always lie a safe criterion by which to follow the ever-changing tide of values These quotations are customarily given for the largest markets and which are always specific

