<doctype type="text">

throughout the whole work. It is advisable to place a soot drainer at the lower end of every flue so that the chimney may be cleared from soot whenever necessary. The foregoing remarks refer exclusively to chimneys built altogether of bricks, but are in a great measure applicable to chimneys built of stone or of adobe. Generally when a chimney is built of stone it is either lined up with bricks or vitrified drain tiles, the latter, when of sufficient area, make the very best flue and are reputed to be the safest as they never gather soot. Adobe chimneys, many of which are found in the remote settlements and on the prairies, should be plastered inside with mortar made as described earlier, and the whole should be left until perfectly dry before any fire is allowed to approach it. Abobes or "dobys" as the westerner calls them, are simply mud bricks, neither more nor less. In dry climates like New Mexico and Arizona and other parts of the southwest they are much used in building, and many of the old forts, mud forts, were built of ''dobys," and they have bravely stood the weather for many a long year, In the absence of bricks the Canadian settler often makes use of the "doby" to build the chimney of his log cabin, but he generally mixes cut stone with the mud, and instead of calling his "brick " a '' doby " he calls it a " cat." We have never been able to discover the reason why the latter designation was given to the mud brick, but suspect it comes by some round-about way from the Quebec French Can any of our readers solve the puzzle?

 <article title=" METHODS OF ESTIMATING FOR PAINTERS " author="">

METHODS OF ESTIMATING FOR PAINTERS.

THE use of a reliable system of measurement, which can be laid before the patron, and charging by the piece, or foot or yard, rather than by the '' lump,' is worthy of general adoption.

In many places the "square" of 100 superficial feet is used. On some work a man can paint six ''squares" a day, while on other work he may be able to paint only three squares in the same time. The charges are made to suit these variations, and is preferred by many to the more elaborate, though really more reliable method of applying different prices to different sorts of work. The claim made for the system is that such fixed rules as these, though involving occasional hardships, will obviate the disputes that are likely to arise from differences in the judgments of divers measurers. This system is worthy of noting here, and it is as follows

EXTERIOR PAINTING.

<article title=" EXTERIOR PAINTING " author="">

i.	All plain surfaces are to be measured by their length, multiplied by their breadth. No deduction to be made for ordinary doors and windows. Nor is any addition to be made for scaffolding, staging, etc.

2.	On irregular surfaces, such as mouldings, panels, etc., the tape line must follow the contour of the surface, and into depressions, quirks, etc., wherever the brush has properly been.

3.	On frame buildings, the thickness of the edges of clapboards, shingles siding etc., to be added to the length of the surface.

4.	In all cases where the terminal edge is cut in, six inches is to be added to such cutting for each foot in length.

5.	In windows and glazed work, when the amount of cutting-in exceeds the surface measurement, the additional cutting-in is to be added to the surface measurement.

6.	In shutters, blinds, and other finish containing movable or fixed slats, such slats are to be measured. In trellis work, also, double the measurement.

7.	In ornamental work, such as cornices with dentins, medallions, brackets etc_ the parts of the work so ornamented are to be measured as double work and added to the moulded work already measured, as provided in Rule 2.

8.	In balustrades, balconies, stairwork having balusters, the opening in which the balusters occurs is to be measured as equal to one-third of the surface for measurement.

9.	In ornamental iron cresting, grille work, etc., the surfaces are to be measured and the amount multiplied by three.

10 Picket fences, gates, etc., are to have one-half of their surface measurement added thereto.

INTERIOR PAINTING.



11 Rules for exterior painting apply to interior work as far as practicable.

I 2. Wood-finishing subject to same rules as painting.

13.	In all cases of wall painting the height is to be measured from tip to base or wainscot to the ceiling, and no openings of less than 3 ft. wide are to be deducted. Where the opening is from 3 ft. to 6 ft. wide, one-half of its contents are to be deducted, but one-sixth in width is to be added for each side of the openings, its entire length.

14.	In calcimining or wall tinting, the walls and ceilings treated are to be measured over all, and no deductions for openings to be made. The same rule to apply to white-washing.

I 5. In all cases of wall. painting or calcimining where plaster cornices are painted or tinted, the girth of the cornice to be measured double and added to the wall surface. Where ornament is painted in such cornices, etc., the provisions of Rule 7 are to be observed.

i6.	All striped work and stenciled border or frieze work must be measured by the lineal foot.

7.	No carved work, plaster centres and ornamentation, foliated capital of columns, statuary, etc., are subject to measurement, but are to be charged for by the piece.

i8.	Painting finished in more than one color, measurements as for plain painting. The extra cost to be in the price charged for the work, but all striping in gold or colors to be measured by the lineal foot.

19. In measuring beaded ceiling or wainscot, or other work in which sunken beads are found, for each bead not more than 1 1/2 in. wide, add in. to the length of surface measured.

20. In all floors, hardwood or otherwise, all wainscot, base, surbase, picture moulding, etc., in which the paint or wood-finish is required to be cut in, at its terminal edge, the provisions of Rule 4 are to be observed.

As already stated and shown, there are various methods of getting at one and the same purpose. Take measurement of a surbase, and one way is to take actual measure and add four inches for cutting in at top and bottom. Another way is to take lineal measure, and if the base is ten inches wide, call it a foot, because painting the extra two inches is not considerable, and when you come to a fourteen inch base, you call it still a foot. And thus the matter is equalized, In the latter way nothing is added for cutting-in at top and bottom, and this avoids disputes with customers, who may not see the justice of charging for cutting-in.

