<doctype type="text">

can Institute of Architects. The periodicals subscribed for by the Association have been bound and placed on the shelves.

MONTHLY DINNERS AND PAPERS. —During the winter months the dinners and reading of papers instituted in former years were maintained, but, owing to the apathy of members, they were not so successful as they should be.

The following papers were prepared for these monthly meetings " Ancient Rome," with lime light illustrations, by Alex. C. Hutchison ''Old Colonial Architecture,' by Robert Findlay

Truth in Architecture,'' by W. E. Doran '' Evolution of the Plan in Building,' by Jos. Venue.

MONT ST. Louis INSTITUTE.—The directors of the Mont St. Louis Institute have made the request that in view of the course of instruction in architecture given to their pupils, that the time required for service in an architects office after they have been admitted to study shall be three instead of four years. As the granting of this request would be in conflict with the act of incorporation and by—laws, the question is referred to this meeting.

REGISTER. —The names of several members have been removed from the register for non-compliance with the by-laws respecting the payment of subscription, and the Council regret to record the decease of M. J. B. Resther, who took an active interest in the formation of the Association, and was ever ready to assist in furthering its objects. A special meeting was called on the day of his funeral and a suitable minute of condolence made, and a copy sent to the family. A wreath of flowers was also sent and placed upon the coffin.

ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.— The following is a record of the attendance of members at meetings of council A. C. Hutchison, president, 20 A. T. Taylor, 17 J. Venne, 20 J. Perrault, 4 R. Findlay, 14 J. B. Resther, 6 A. H. Lapierre T. Daoust,

4.	Messrs. J. F. Peachy, 2nd vice president, C. Baillarge and 6.



E.	Tanguay, residing in Quebec, are not inscribed in this register. There were, besides the requested meetings of Council, a number of meetings of committees appointed by the Council to assist in carrying out the work of the Association, more particularly in connection with the exhibits.

The Council would place on record its appreciation of the assistance thus rendered.

THE Press.—The thanks of the Association are tendered to the Press for interest and notice of its proceedings.

Jos. VENNE, Secretary.



The report submitted by the Treasurer, Mr. Jos. Perrault, was of a very satisfactory character, showing a strong balance to the credit of the Association in bank.

The reports of the Council and the Treasurer having been adopted, the election of officers was proceeded with, and resulted as follows the scrutineers being Messrs. G. E. Tanguay, of Quebec, and H. C. Nelson, of Montreal : President, A. T. Taylor, Montreal ; first Vice-President, J. F. Peachy, Quebec ; second Vice-President, A. Raza, Montreal ; Secretary, Jos. Venne, Montreal ; Treasurer, E. Maxwell, Montreal Council, A. C. Hutchison, Jas. Nelson, J. Wright, R. Findlay, Montreal, Chas. Baillarge and F. X. Berlinguet of Quebec.

Auditors: Messrs. G. E. Tanguay and H. C. Nelson. The most important feature took place in the forenoon session on the tariff of charges. There were lively discussions. M. Berlinguet, of Quebec, said that the tariff at present in the hands of the Lieut. Governor should not be sanctioned, being in some respects too high and in others too low. M. Baillarge called the attention of the meeting to the fact that an architect was not allowed to testify in his own case, as the other professional men could do.

It was proposed by Mr. A. Raza, seconded by Mr. Perrault, that this important question should be referred to the new Council for consideration at a special meeting, and that a report thereon be presented as soon as possible.

The idea of having a Dominion Association of Architects was favorably received, and has been referred to the same committee. Mr. C. Baillarge, of Quebec, and

M . Perrault referred to the advantages of such an association.



The request of the authorities of the Mount St. Louis I Institute was taken into consideration, but no immediate conclusion was reached.

The retiring president then introduced his successor, Mr. A. T. Taylor, who thanked the members of the association for the honor conferred upon him, and said that he hoped that they would help him to make the Association a flourishing one.

In the afternoon the invited guests and Quebec members were driven through the city and to Laval University and the Diocesan College of Theology, which buildings the)' thoroughly inspected. The party then went around the mountain and greatly enjoyed the scenery.

THE Exhibition.

<article title=" THE Exhibition " author="">

The second exhibition held under the auspices of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects in the galleries of the Art Association, Phillips Square, was a proceed success in every respect, and augurs well for similar undertakings in the future



Although the drawings were inferior in number to those of the exhibition of two years ago, there was a noticeable advance in point of excellence which ought to amply reward the promoters for their labor, and be appreciated by the profession as a whole, and the public at large.

If the architectural drawings occupied less space than in the former exhibition, together with the exhibits of the Arts and Crafts Department, the entire space occupied this year was far greater, two galleries being entirely taken up, and part of a third. The Arts and Crafts Department was a most valuable addition and is destined to bring to light many an ignored artist in the line of decorative sculpture, painting, iron work, and other allied arts closely connected to architecture.

The exhibition was inaugurated in the evening by a delightful conversation, which was attended by a large and select society. Sweet music was discoursed and refreshments served in the large class room adjoining the new gallery.

The following is a list of the drawings exhibited in alphabetical order by authors

Archibald, John S., Montreal, I, Church of St. Bertrand and Street in Lisle, France Barnes R Percy, Montreal, 2, Church at Philipsburgh, 3, '' Claremont," Pointe Claire, 4, '' Glynn - Hedd," Lachine ; Bigelow, Henry Forbes, Boston, U. 5., 5. Perspective of St. Mark's School, Southborough, Mass., 6, Perspective of the Grand Stand for Readville Trotting Park U S. A

7, Perspective of a Block of Shops at Gilbertsville, New York, U. S. A. Brown, McVicar & Heriot, Montreal, 8, Summer Hotel at Chambly, 9, Sketch for Three Houses, 10, Interior of Hall, ii, Apartment House, Peel street, 12, Sketch for an Apartment House 13, Residence of C. Davidson, 14, Residence of A. J. Inglis, Westmount Cox & Amos, Montreal, 15\, a Block of Seven Cottages at Westmount, i6, Designs for Additions to the College of St. Laurent, 17, Design for Altar and Reredos Church at Rougemont, P. Q., i8, Block of Stores, St. Catharine Street, 19, House at Westmount, 20, Residence at Kensington Daoust, Theodore, Montreal, 24, Perspective of College at St. Henry, 125, Front F of House Department of Public Works, Ottawa, 2 t, Interior of Library of Parliament, 22, Perspective of Drill Hall, Halifax, 23 to 31, Public Buildings at Winnipeg, Victoria, Berlin, Port Hope, Clifton, hull, Bathurst, New-

