<doctype type="text">

BY THE WAY. <article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

A TORONTO hardware firm have had in stock for several years a pair of door hinges of decorative design, which, on account of their unusual size, they found themselves unable to dispose of. A month or two ago these hinges came under the notice of an architect who had a house in course of erection in a fashionable quarter, and who saw possibilities in effect which might be achieved by their use. The hardware merchant was glad to get rid of the unsaleable articles at less than halt the price he had originally put upon them. The architect designed a perfectly plain oak-veneered door, with a small opening filled with fancy glass in the upper part, and placed the hinges upon it. The effect is said to be decidedly unique as well as pleasing. By-the-bye, the builder was obliged to send this door to a piano factory to be veneered, owing to the unusual extent of surface.



xxx x



Your remarks, recently, anent the injury likely to result to the reputation of the furnace manufacturer who permits work of installation to be imperfectly carried out, were undoubtedly correct," said a manufacturer in this line to me the other day. " The speculative builder used to come to us and specify a furnace far too small for the requirements, with piping and other adjuncts in proportion--- his object being to sell the house as soon as possible. Formerly we were accustomed to sell what was asked for, believing that as we were to have no part in the putting in of the system, no responsibility could attach to us for its proper working. Latterly we have come to view the matter differently. When we came to consider that the occupant of a house which is thus inadequately equipped for heating, notes only the fact that the furnace bears the name of a certain manufacturer, and attributes all his discomfort to a defective heater, we were not long in concluding that our good name was in danger. Now, when a builder comes to purchase a furnace from us, we insist upon knowing all about the house in which it is to be placed, and we will refuse to sell a No. 4 furnace to do the work of a No. 10."





ILLUSTRATIONS.

NORMAL SCHOOL, HAMILTON, ONT. WILLIAM AND



WALTER STEWART, ARCHITECTS.



DIOCESAN THEOLOGICAL COLLEGE, MONTREAL, QUE. —



A. T. TAYLOR F R I B A. ARCHITECT.



HOUSE, LAVAL AVENUE, MONTREAL, FOR MRS. JOSEPH



LEVY.—VIEW OF HALL IN SAME.—J. & H. C.



NELSON, ARCHITECTS.



The material is red and buff sandstone and pressed brick, with red tiles on front gable and upper storey of tower. The interior finish will be chiefly of whitewood. Owing to the nature of the soil the footings of all walls are composed of concrete and light steel girders.

NOTE. In the description accompanying the illustrations of proposed bridge across the St. Lawrence river at Montreal, which recently appeared in these pages, mention should have been made of the name of Mr. Walter Shanley, consulting engineer for the Montreal Bridge Co. and referee for the award of prizes—also Mr. C. N. Armstrong, managing director of the company,

TRUE FACTOR OF SAFETY.

THE employment of the so-called factors of safety implies corresponding degrees of inexactness of our know -ledge of the precise static or dynamic value of the resistances of structural materials, details and workmanship. The degree and kind of this inexactness varies, says the Contract Journal, according to the nature and purpose of the structure in question to which the factor is applied. The factor for a live or dynamic load is usually assumed to be double that for a dead or static load. When the load consists partly of static and partly of dynamic effect, the live load may be converted into the assumed equivalent dead load, and added to the dead load portion of the estimate. The factor of safety has generally reference to a fraction of the ultimate breaking or destructive strength of the materials. This gives rise to a large numerical factor. Hence there has been a tendency by the inexperienced to curtail the fractional value of the factor of safety to a rather hazardous extent. This is especially so when applied to materials and workmanship, as well as design, which are of an inferior character. The destructive strength of materials is often a very valuable ratio (say two or three times) of the crippling strength, and is still larger in excess of the elastic limit of the materials. The elastic limit, however, has likewise a somewhat variable and uncertain value with different testers, and the precision of different testing machines is not alike in degree or manner of registering the limiting point. But neither series of values, of the destructive or crippling strengths, or the elastic limit, has any constant relation the one to the other alike in all materials nor in all samples of the same materials. In good present practice the elastic limit is assumed as the basis of the factor of safety, because it is the nearest approach to the serviceable strength of all structural materials for all practical purposes, and involves the minimum of uncertainty. The factor is therefore correspondingly reduced to a half or a third of the elastic limit, according to the complexity of parts. The adaptability of the design and details, and of the character of the workmanship and materials in the several parts and positions, to the purposes of the structure must be considered. Permanence under exposure to weather or injury from other causes, or from variable or accidental loading, etc., must likewise be kept before the mind





MORTAR OF BRICK DUST.

IT will not be without interest, says the Moniteur de la Ceramique, in a recent issue, to make a note of the application of brick dust for the making of mortar. Why not, indeed, use this substance, if it is good, and even economical in certain cases, as a substitute for cement? Experiments have been made with a mixture of this substance with quicklime, and blocks made of such composition, thirteen millimeters thick, after having remained submerged in water for four months, have sustained, it appears, without cracking or breaking, a weight of 10,500 kilograms per square decimetre. One part in ten of the brick dust was sufficient to give ordinary mortars a remarkable cohesive power. This composition was serviceable for the construction of drains, reservoirs, cisterns, the tops of terraces, etc. The best proportion is one part of brick dust, one of lime, and two of sand, the whole mixed dry and wet with the water necessary.

