<doctype type="text">	182	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



hordes slowly rising into civilization amidst the ruins of Romes vanished might. The history of the tenth, the eleventh, the twentieth and the thirteenth centuries is written for us in the monkish chronicles—which are dull reading in all conscience. But infinitely more impressive and more vivid is the history written for us by those self—same monks in stone and lime, history which it is a fascination to spell out among the crumbling ruins of their buildings, so lovely in their decay. The chronicles in great are occupied in dwelling for edification upon the rather foolish miracles in which the patron saints indulged it seems pitiful, and childish and infinitely wearisome to us now. But the ruined church and cloister show us what they did, these monks, who were neither fools nor children when it came to action, in the centuries when they had work to do and did it. William the Conqueror in England, to establish his throne securely, harried with incredible cruelty and fury perhaps the fairest province in his dominions, From the awful severity of that blow, so swift and pitiless and thorough, Yorkshire and the north lay prostrate, too drenched in blood and ruined to recover life. Who and what Saved that desolated land and made it once more populous with thriving industry and fertile? Who drained the marshes, cleared the forests, reclaimed the land and turned the desert into gardens? The history of that great social revolution is written for us in the decaying walls of those Cistercian abbeys, once so fair, and still so fair, though well nigh swept away by the hand of time and the much more ruthless hand of man, which dot the vales of Yorkshire in numbers that surprise the modern tourist. There is no fairer page of peaceful history than this conquest for civilization by the monks of a whole district, and nowhere can that page be read in fairer lettering than in the ruins of the noble piles they raised while their strenuousness was still upon them.

In the 13th century France awoke from the despondency and blight of the English sovereignty, and under Philip Augustus and St. Louis found herself a nation, with her cities rich and flourishing. The history of that time, fraught with such consequence for Europe, is to be found in and illustrated by the civic charters and incorporations, but as reading it is dry as dust. These musty records cannot appeal to us or bring home to us in even the meagrest way that stirring time as do those glorious cathedrals, which the cities raised in generous rivalry and with such amazing zeal, those gothic buildings without equal, unapproachable, which make the North of France to this day perhaps the richest field of architectural study in the world.

If there is one spot in England endeared and sacred to all English speaking folk, one spot in which the whole history of the Anglo-Saxon race seems summed up and vivified, reaching to our very hearts and throbbing to the very fibres of our being, is it not within that hallowed building, perhaps the most beautiful church of Christendom, which Henry the Third and his successors raised to replace the older church of the last Saxon King of England, built amid the marshes of the Thames, the Benedictine Abbey Church of Westminster? For well nigh eight centuries and a half—if not for fonger—the people and the sovereigns of England have worked together to make that noble church a shrine for the nations history. I confess the great past is borne in upon me each time I linger about that nave and aisle and cloister, so wondrous in their beauty, with an almost overpowering presence. Happy—thrice happy—is the nation that has a history, and a history enshrined in such a building.

I have tried—however imperfectly—to show something of what architecture ought to aim at, something of its ideals and of the bearings of the subject in a university such as this. If it be vouchsafed to me, even in but humble measure, to impart something of the inspiration of these ideals to those whom it is my privilege to call my students, I shall assuredly feel that in dedicating such powers as I possess to McGill University, I shall not wholly be laboring in vain. (Great cheering.)



On the motion of Sir William Dawson, seconded by Prof. Bovey, a hearty vote of thanks was accorded the lecturer for his able effort.



There are few businesses that permit of greater waste in small matters, relating both to time and material, than in repairing work. A contract is often taken that, if executed in a businesslike manner, would yield fair profit, but that, when actually carried out, brings almost a loss because of pure carelessness. Some workmen seem specially adapted to doing repairing work and will get over the ground in half the time of another man. Success is often brought about by carefully selecting men who show ability in some particular direction.

MARBLE IN NOVA SCOTIA. <article title=" MARBLE IN NOVA SCOTIA " author="">

UNDER this heading Mr. Geo. C. Underhill writes to our Chicago contemporary, Stone, as follows Some thirty years ago a company was organized in Halifax to develop a marble property at Marble Mountain, Cape Breton. A better outcropping or more favorable environments could hardly be asked for. At a point on Bras D'or Lake (salt water and connected with the Atlantic Ocean) about fifteen miles from West Bay, this marble stratum crops out literally on the lake shore and is exposed several hundred feet in width, and following its course back at a right angle from the water's edge we find it for a long distance coursing vertically through a table-land perhaps two hundred feet above the water. This mesa breaks off gradually to the lake shore, making it possible to lower the marble by its own weight down to the vessels for water transportation to every coast, city and town on the Atlantic seaboard and to Europe ; moreover, every large market in Canada is accessible by water direct. This marble is in good variety, white, variegated, blue, etc., and the best grades are fine, firm, and in every way desirable, while the coarser layers are AI for building material. As might be expected, the prominently exposed points are crackled and broken, but largely by influences that obtain at the surface only, as of expansion and contraction. In a word, we have here an endless quantity, good variety and quality, cheap transportation, cheap fuel (coal at less than 82 per ton), cheap labor, and so far as Canada is concerned, a protected market ; in fact, doubly so, by reason of a high import tariff and absolutely no home competition, there being no marble produced in the Dominion. I repeat, there was a company formed many years ago to work this property, and with a cash capital that should have made it prosper ; but it did not. Why ? Simply because the manager set out, through the means of several expensive tunnels, to reach the sound material that was not apparent at the surface, evidently not knowing why it blistered at the exposures, hence not realizing its limited extent. Just how he purposed to proceed after finding sound rock, or how perfect stone was to be reached by blasting the material into fragments in advance, is not plain. Anyhow, he not only blasted the marble but the ''great expectations" of his friends as well.

Then came a long sleep For the embryo marble enterprise until in the early spring of 1894, when Mr. Geo. Hattie, a fine old Scotch gentleman, and one of the original owners, succeeded with other Halifaxians in making a second start. Again they move off with ample means and with some of the strongest men in Nova Scotia interested, among them several batik men, Prof. Fraser, who is one of the ablest men the writer has ever met, and several of the best business men of Halifax, including Roderick McDonald, the company's first president. This party has started right, beginning at the mesa's crest with channeling- machines and derricks. The) have gone down to measurably sound stock, and now have a mill in operation, the whole plant being under the care of Mr. D. Maclachlin, who, by the way, was one of the energetic men who aided Mr. Hattie in securing capital with which to strike the rocks of Marble Mountain once more. What the future has in store for my good friends in Nova Scotia I do not know, but this much is true they ought to win, and while there is change in everything, I believe the)' will prosper, for they have the wind and the waves in their favor.

