<doctype type="text">





























THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED ID FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TD THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOE PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.)

<article title=" Hanging Doors " author="">

Hanging Doors.

IN fitting a door the workman should take pains to have it clear the panel about one-eighth of an inch on one side

only. It is best always to '' fit " from the hanging stile side that is, have the hanging stile fit close to the jamb, and let the space all show on the lock stile ; and when it is hinged, the space should be divided, allowing  1 16" clear on hinge side and the same on the lock side. One sixteenth space is a liberal allowance and should never be exceeded, and is only permissible when the doors are to be painted. Hardwood doors that are finished in natural wood should not show nearly this much space, but the lock stile should he bevelled slightly to allow of its inner edge to leave the jamb without  striking A door should not bind on its hinges ; when closed it should remain so, even if the lock-bolt does not enter the keeper, nor should it drag on the floor or sill, or bind in the frame at any point. A door properly hung is a ''joy forever," but one that is eternally striking sonic point in the jamb, or striking at the top or bottom every time it is opened, is a source of irritation and a corruption of good morals. In adjusting the hinges for ordinary panel doors, the proper distance to place the butts is eight inches from the top to the top of the hinge, and ten inches from the floor to the bottom of the lower hinge. If there is a third butt required, as is sometimes the case, it should be placed a little nearer the bottom hinge than the top one, as most of the labor and stress falls to the lower hinge always, and if the third butt is carried down below the centre of the door, it relives the bottom hinge materially. The lock should always be placed with its top edge on a line with the lock rail, that is, of course, if the door is one having a lock rail. Sometimes, however, as in multi-paneled outside rails there are no lock rails, in which case the workman must so adjust his lock that the spindle for the knobs will be just two feet eight inches from the bottom of the door, this distance being the correct height to place the knobs or pulls. In ease there is a lock rail in the door, and the stiles of the door are narrower than ordinary, a rim lock should be used, for if a mortise lock be employed it will necessitate cutting away the tenor of the lock rail to insert the lock, a process that would destroy the strength of the door at an important point. If the stile is the full width, 472 inches, a narrow mortise lock may be used without doing much injury to the door, providing the door is well made and properly glued together. The spindle on which the knobs are fastened, should pass through the door and lock, exactly at right angles in every direction. Workmen are often very careless on this point, and their carelessness leads to trouble and

Repairing Roofs.

annoyance as the roses cannot receive either the spindle or the knobs properly, and binding against the wood follows, and both knob and spindle after a time work loose or the lock breaks at the eye with the constant strain. As much care should be exercised in trimming a door as in hanging it, in order to make a good lasting and satisfactory job.



JUST about this time of the year many house owners will be made aware that they cannot any longer defer stopping

the leaks in their roofs. In a shingle or slate roof, little difficulty will be experienced in stopping the leak, but with a flat roof, whether covered with composition, tin or sheet iron, the trick of curing the defect becomes a serious matter, particularly if the roof is wet, as it is likely to be during the fall and spring months. It is well known that it is very difficult to solder tin or sheet iron when it is covered with moisture, and should there be an)' holes in the tin or iron while there is water or snow on the roof, and it becomes a necessity to stop the holes to prevent 'the leakage, do not attempt to solder the holes, but adopt the following method Procure a piece of iron about three sixteenths of an inch thick of suitable length and width to cover the hole. Have a sufficient number of holes drilled in it to take No. 10 one inch screws. Countersink holes to take in head of screws. Take a piece of felt cloth; a piece of an old hat will do if you have nothing better; make it the size of the iron ; soak the cloth in thick oxide of iron paint or white lead; place the cloth over the hole, then lay over this the iron and screw tight down to the roof. If water is running down the roof it may be held back by building a dam above the leak with putty, which will divert the stream until such time as the leak is repaired. A little varnish mixed with the paint will tend to make the cloth stick better at first. When these cloth patches become dry the)' answer better than solder, and will outlast the roof. If the flashings break away from a chimney or from a brick wall, they can be fastened by taking wire nails and putting washers on them to make the heads large and driving them through the tin into the mortar joint ; then the tin can be plastered with a cement made by mixing dry sand with iron paint to the consistency of mortar; sand and paint makes an exceedingly good medicine when properly applied, for curing leak)' roofs. If a leak occurs between wood and brick, or on a gravel or composition roof, a proper application of this cement will give instant relief. For repairing about chimneys this cement is unequalled. When a gravel roof is wet, it is evident it would be difficult to repair it with paint cement or

