	<doctype type="text">200	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 

<article title=" THE INFLUENCE OF STEEL CONSTRUCTION AND PLATE GLASS UPON STYLE " author="Adler, Dankmar">

THE INFLUENCE OF STEEL CONSTRUCTION AND PLATE GLASS UPON STYLE.*

THE author of an article recently published in Lippincott's Magazine summarizes the laws of architectural design in the sentence, form follows function,'' and endeavors to condense into three words what others have vainly tried to enunciate innumerous treatises and in bulky volumes on the Philosophy of Art. If it was necessary to state in a three-worded aphorism the entire law of architectural design and composition, nothing could have better suited the purpose than the words quoted above from the pen of that clear thinker and brilliant writer, Louis H. Sullivan.

Every architectural work has a function, a purpose which has called it into being, and its success is measured by the degree of approximation to fulfillment of function " which characterizes its form.''

From this one might infer that it is only necessary to divide into a few classes the functions to be served by architectural structures, and to determine the form best adapted to cacti, and thus develop an infallibly correct system of architectural design from which none may deviate without incurring the reproach of ignorance and lack of culture.

We should then have an architecture somewhat more scientific and vastly more practical, but as trite and as devoid of the interest imparted by the creative impulse as is the architecture founded upon the principle, form follows historic precedent, which stamps as barbaric every structure for which the architect has failed to provide an academically and historically correct mask and costume, and which treats as heresy an attempt to do, not as t lie Romans did in the year t, hut to do as one thinks the Romans might have done in the year 1896.

Returning to Mr. Sullivan's aphorism, we find that lie bases it upon studies and conversations of nature which, carried a little farther, show that although the common function of all organic creation is maintenance and propagation of the various species, yet an ever varying environment has produced an infinite number of species and innumerable differences in individuals of each species.

Therefore, if form follows function, 'it does not follow in a straight line, nor in accordance with a simple mathematical formula, but along the lines of curves whose elements are always changing and never alike.

If the lines of development and growth of vegetable and animal organisms are infinitely differentiated, the processes of untrammelled human thought and human emotions are even more subtle in the differences and shading of their manifestations while the natural variations in conditions of human environment are as great as those which influence the developments of form in the lower organisms and human work is further modified by necessary artificial conditions and circumstances.

Therefore, before accepting Mr. Sullivan's statement of the underlying law upon which all good architectural design and all true architectural style is founded, it may be well to amend it, and say: function and environment determine form,' using the words environment and form in their broadest sense.

The functions served by the work of the architect have expanded by little, and have varied still less within the limits of the historic records of architecture; nor has there been much change until the last quarter of this century in those conditions of environment which comprise the structural and decorative materials at the disposal of the architect.

The great epochs in the development of architectural style are respectively characterized by the introduction of the pointed arch and its characteristic vaultings. It is our good fortune to have inherited all that was accomplished by the many generations who lived and thought and worked in these epochs. We are still more blessed in being allowed the privilege of participating in the creation and in witnessing the birth of another epoch in architectural design, the form of style of which will be founded upon the discovery of the steel pillar, the steel beam, the clear sheet of l)late glass, electric light and mechanical ventilation—all devoted to the service of functions or wants cleared by the greater intensity of modern life and by improved means of communication between

places and men.

Probably there were those in Greece who deplored the departure from correct and historic Assyrian and Egyptian architecture which had to be made in order to originate and establish the most exquisitely finished and most fully and logically developed architectural style the world has known. And when the sturdy but



Paper by Mr. Dankmar Adler, presented before the American Institute of Architects.

gross-minded Roman used and modified Greek prototypes in accordance with his coarser and more aggressive mentality, amid when, finally, he introduced the arch and the vault and substituted for the refined and elegant treatment of the severe and regular forms inseparable from beam and lintel constriction, a bold and comparatively unrefined treatment of the more irregular and picturesque forms made possible by the discovery of the arch, the new departure was certainly as displeasing and distressing to the

purists and scholars of that day as were in latter days the works of those alleged barbarians whose efforts to utilize to the utmost time means and knowledge at their command, created the styles known as '' Byzantine " and Romanesque," and finally that culmination of protest against dry-as-dust tradition, the styles which scholars and men of culture derisively named after the barbarian Goths.

So, also, in our day, many of those who have been taught to understand and love and honor forms and traditions transmitted from past ages shrink from contact with the new materials and processes, and, noting the inevitable modifications of time-honored theory and practice, lift their voices in protest against legitimizing forms which are the offspring of newly—arisen functions and of newly-discovered conditions of environment.

And yet each historic style was called into being in obedience to new developments of function or environment, and each was in its (lay an iconoclastic innovation upon well established and firmly founded practice.

Therefore we are justified in assuming that the new conditions will exert a marked influence on architectural style in our day and in the future.

It is the duty of those, who by familiarity with the historical styles are best fitted for this task, to ascertain the creative principles and laws which underlie the architectural style of by—gone periods of greatest artistic achievement, and to apply these principles to the utilization of the means placed at lie disposal of the architect of our day for satisfying the requirements of the day.

The American architect, who travels iii Europe and studies t lie architecture of the many ages which have preceded the last century, is impressed and charmed by the freedom and naivete with which consciousness of the fact that each age is the heir of all preceding ages is proclaimed in the composition and in detail of so many structures. Nothing can be more interesting titan the observation of the existence of a living vigorous style, joyous in the consciousness of life free to assimilate the old and to create the new. Nor is it unprofilable to follow a style from the exuberance of its youthful vigor to old age and decadence, to ossification and crystallization into an inert and lifeless set of fixed and unalterable rules, into a fetich to be worshipped by' future generations; in other words, into an academic historic style.

But after one has taken it all in, there is one impression stronger than all others. It is the consciousness of the zeal and earnestness of the all-pervading endeavor to so utilize all the means at command, that the form and expression of each structure might conform to its function, whetlmer that were the worship of God or the glorification of guild or municipality ; whether intended to serve the lavish display of the wealth and dignity' of the great noble, or to house the humble burgher, each kind of structure has its individuality, and of these, again, each gives expression to the character and personality of its occupant.

Our generation has in many ways shown itself worthy of its heirship of so many ages, and has given expression to its appreciation of its good fortune by' transmitting to lie future an inheritance still more valuable than that which has fallen to its lot.

can the architect do, that lie also may' prove himself worthy' of opportunities so much greater than those enjoyed by his predecessors?

Human nature has limitations which circumscribe amid define time attainable in literature amid art. There will be more greater than Homer, than Moses, than David, than Shakespeare, than Phidias, than Leonardo da Vinci, than Raphael, than Michael Angelo no author, no sculptor, no painter, no architect can as an artist expect to excel many who have gone before. But the architect is not only an artist, but also arm engineer, a than of science and a man of affairs. In these latter capacities, the architect of to-day has at his command instrumentalities amid opportunities unknown to his predecessors. Were lie an artist only, the giant strides which science, amid by' its aid industry, communication and traffic have made in the past fifty' years would leave him by the wayside, content as are his fellow-artists of the brush and chisel to admire the onward rush to be with it, but not of it, to be dazed by' its splendor and to thrive arid wax fat under the patronage of those

