<doctype type="text">

<article title=" HAMILTON ART STUDENTS' LEAGUE " author="">

HAMILTON ART STUDENTS' LEAGUE.

RT circles in Hamilton have been stirred into somewhat unwonted action this season by the organization of the

Hamilton Art Students' League," formed on the usual lines of such art clubs with the view of mutual improvement and help as well as the promotion of art and good fel1owship among amateurs

and professionals. It is not entirely a new departure, for some years since there existed a Sketch Club in the Ambitious City comprising most of the wielders of the brush and pencil then active, and being known as the '' Black and White Club," holding its meetings in the studios of J. R. Seavey and exhibiting occasionally groups of sketches by the members.

The new movement began in November last at a largely attended meeting of ladies and gentlemen held at the Canadian Club, the prospect being so promising that without delay the organization was effected. Mr.

J.	R. Seavey, the artist, was elected President; Miss Clara Galbraith, Vice-President ; Mr. C. I Wright, Secretary, and Miss Tutty Treasurer.

A commodious and centrally located atelier at 8 King street west was secured, lit by electricity. The main room being formerly a large photographic operating room with skylight, makes it convenient for both night and day work. There is room for a semi-circle of 25 members to sketch in the front row about the model throne.

A Board of control, consisting of active and ex-officio members, manages the League, while a House Corn spastic artists and students, the work is earnest and thorough. About thirty-five active members are enrolled; many of whom are ladies.

The first week in June the annual sketch exhibition will be held in the rooms, and in December the annual exhibition of finished work by the members, active and associate, at the Canadian Club.



<article title=" MONTREAL " author="">

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



It is evident to whoever has studied the development of architecture in this province, or at least in Montreal, that it has perceptibly retrograded during the last decade owing to the wholesale building by speculators, without the aid of the architect, or at least, intelligent architects. From the foundation of this country up to



















HOUSE OF H. VINCENT MEREDITH, MONTREAL.





mittee, elected each month, supply models and attend to details. Two evenings each week are devoted to drawing and painting from life, the monthly dues being one dollar, which covers the expense of models, rent, etc. Associate members who have a vote in the elections, and the entree of the exhibitions, pay an annual fee of two dollars. No instructors are at present employed, but as the League is composed of many Enshu

STORES ON St. CATHERINE STREET, MONTREAL.





about thirty years ago we can easily trace the influence of the architecture of the older countries of Europe, especially of France in the first period and England in the second; while since then we have reflected all the mixed styles which have held sway in the United States, from the Neo-Grec to the revival of Colonial or in other words we have built regardless of style at all. This is the case with the majority of structures of modern construction.



American architecture commenced to get a foothold here, with the erection of the Standard building on St. James street, which was built from the design of an American architect. Whether people were prejudiced against the architecture done by local architects is an open question, but it is nevertheless true that since the erection of that building many works of importance have been entrusted to American architects, as exemplified in the New York Life building on Place D'Armes, the V. M. C. A. building on Dominion Square, and in the more recent example of the Board of

