<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT   AND BUILDER  201

who initiate and control the movement of modern material progress.

But architecture is not permitted to remain placidly contemplative of the march of events. The architect is not allowed to wait until, seized by an irresistible impulse from within, he gives the world the fruit of his studies and musings. He is of the world as well as in it. The world of to-day has greater need of his aid than had any previous period, and he is pressed into its service and must work for it and with it, no matter whether or not urged by the spirit within him. the world must have buildings it will have them adapted to its wants and functions it will insist upon the utilization of the best of the materials and processes which scientific and industrial progress place at its disposal. The architect must , therefore, fit himself for the duties thrust upon him. The world calls upon him to do the work of to—day with the tools of to—day, not as a tyro, not as 0110 who must first learn how but as an architect, a master worker, as one of whom the world believes that familiarity which he has acquired with the processes by which the work of other periods has been accomplished makes him better fitted for the work of to-day, and that he will press into its service all the experience of many ages and epochs.

Michael Angelo was painter, sculptor, architect, diplomat, but above all, and in all, an artist. An important factor ill his greatness as an architect was his familiarity with the technique of the auxiliary and subsidiary arts, sciences amid crafts, the command of which devolves upon the architect. The great Buonarotti did not disdain to learn the metal-founder's, the quarry-worker's and other crafts in order to be the better able to carry out the plans which his great mind had conceived. Were he among us now, he would be in the front rank of the experts and specialists in all the modern arts and sciences which have arisen to perplex and worry the artist-architect wedded to the traditions, processes and materials of the past. And being Master of specialties and details, he would, as General, master them all into martial array for overcoilling the difficulties incident to the expanded and diversified demands which our time makes upon the architect.

Few, perhaps none of us, (all be equal to Buonarotti, but all can emulate him in his zeal and capacity for hard work. We too, can become impatient and contemptuous of the performance of auxiliaries and specialists, and dismissing them, can ourselves acquire a knowledge of the technique of their arts and sciences and crafts, amid ill the furnace heat of zeal and enthusiasm for the attainment of a great cud, combine all that we honor in the lore and traditions of our profession with the discoveries and achievements of the science of to-day, pour all into the mould of contemporary requirements and bring forth our contribution to the architecture of the New World, the new age of steel, electricity amid scientific progress.

For several years it has been the fashion among the professors of our art to decry the new materials amid processes of construction amid condemn their most noteworthy applications to the service of requirements horn of modern conditions The contributions which modern science has made to our power to command and utilize the materials amid forces of nature, amid the increased and expanded opportunities for the creation of useful and beautiful works which modern society has given us, have been looked upon askance. And it is greatly to be regretted that some of those whose works had proved them well qualified to determine under 1110 new environment the forms best adapted to the old, as well as the new functions, have been most persistent in their condemnatory utterances against the new problems which they themselves were so successfully solving.

    	What I have written is intended to be a protest against the dogma that art in architecture ended with the Renaissance, a denial of the assumption that the uses of materials and processes, and wants and functions unknown to the masters who flourished  that glorious period, or their predecessors in other eras of great artistic vigor in architecture, is incompatible with the performance of truly artistic work.

I wish to maintain that the steel pillar amid beam, amid other contemporary contributions to the materials and processes of building construction, that the modern business building amid many other so called monstrosities, are as legitimate contributions to architectural art as were in their day, when first introduced the stone pier and lintel the brick wall or pier, the arch, the vault, the roofed temple, the vaulted basilica, the spired and buttressed cathedral. All that is wanting is the will and the ability to make proper use of these newly discovered agencies.

The new materials and processes, the new requirements, should not, however, in their introduction into architecture and in their

	



assimilation by our art, be treated as things apart and by themselves, but they should be treated as related to and part of all that has gone before in the long history of human and artistic progress.

The author of to-day has at his disposal and does not disdain to use an enlarged vocabulary the musician has a greater range of instruments, a richer and fuller orchestration and the great composer deems it a privilege to be able to evolve combinations of tone that were unattainable to his predecessors. And even if the painter of to-day uses the same pigments, and depicts the same

phases of animate and inanimate nature, and the sculptor uses the same marble, and both painter and sculptor play upon the same gamut of human emotions, as did their prototypes for many generations, that is no reason why the architect should look askance upon new instrumentalities and new Opportunities for developing and enlarging the scope of his art.

 Let us, then, welcome the prosaic output of furnace and mill, and even the unpromising and garish sheet of plate-glass. If they are always used where they are wanted and as they are wanted and never where they are not wanted, nor as they are not wanted, we shall have taken the first step towards the transmutation of these utterances of scientific prose into the language of poetry and art, In the nature of things, the block of rough stone, the lump of clay, the log of timber, are all apparently as uncompromisingly unpoetic and inartistic as the much dreaded and impreciated modern intruders into the programme of architectural composition, which form the title of this paper. What they have of poetic suggestion and significance they owe to the genius of man, and what man has done, man can do. Let us not .and back and admit that we are unable to learn front our predecessors how difficulties are overcome, how victory is wrested from apparent defeat.

Yet another work. I have quoted the dictum form follows function,'' and have modified it into the words fund on and environment determine form.

Steel pillars and steel beams occupy so little space that in order to enclose structures of which they are the essential supporting parts, they must be furnished with a filling, if a space enclosing structure is to be erected, and steel posts and beams to be adequately protected against possible attacks of fire must receive bulky fire protective coverings. In these fillings and coverings we obtain media for artistic treatment which may be handled solely with reference to the desire to adapt form '' to "function"

From this I deduce that the influence of the new materials and processes will tend to a more free and less trammelled treatment of architectural design, and that the striving for the creation of ideally perfect form will be less hampered by limitations incident to the use of refractory materials of construction.





PERSONAL.



The death is announced of Mr. J. C. Clements, contractor, of Vancouver, 13. C.

C. A. & E. W'. Barber, architects and mechanical engineers, have opened an office at Rat Portage, Out.

The firm of J. W. & E. C. Hopkins, architects, Montreal, has been dissolved, Mr. j. W. Hopkins continuing

At the recent convention at Chicago of the American Society of Municipal Improvement, Mr. E. H. Keating, city engineer of Toronto, was elected a member of the Water Works and Water Supply Committee.

Mr. H. [). Ellis, formerly of the city engineer's staff, Toronto, has lately returned from Manitoba, where he has been engaged in the construction of 100 miles of railway from Gladstone through the Dauphin district to Lake Winnipegoosis.

Mr. E. C. Hopkins, formerly of the firm of J. W. & E. C. Hopkins, architects, Montreal, has recently formed a new partnership with Mr. E. Sainbault, certified architect, of Paris, The new firm will be known as Hopkins & Sainbault, with offices at 1,586 1/2

Not re Dame street, Montreal.





Messrs. Henry and Borthwick, of Ottawa, have taken suit ill the Exchequer Court for $15,000 for work done in connection with the construction of a drain at the Lacbine Canal.

Action has been taken by Messrs. Blanshard & Norton, brick and stone contractors, against the trustees of the First Methodist Church, London, for a balance of about $7,000. 'The trustees claim to be holding back part of their contract price on account of the mechanics' liens placed by a sub-contractor.

