<doctype type="text">	160	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



castle and Amherst respectively ; Dufort, Cajetan, Montreal, 32, Detail of a Courtyard, 33, Chickering hall 34, house of Geo. Willis, Chicago, 35, Columbia College, 36, Swampscott, 37, a Summer Residence ; Findlay, Robert, Montreal, 38, Residence of W. M. Knowles, 39, Residence of Dr. D. F. Gurd, 40, Residence of R. Findlay, 41, Residence of J. L. Morris, 42, Residence of

W. R. Miller, 43, Residence of J. Allan, 44, Residence of J. S. Sheffield ; Finley, S. Arnold, Montreal, 45 Sketch of Old House at Laval, France, 46, Sketch of Old English house, 47, Sketch for Shooting Box, 48, Rambling Sketches ; Fuller, Thomas, Ottawa, 40, Design for Capitol at Albany, 50 Design for Church, 51

Ground Plan of Public Building at Victoria ; Gardiner, J. Rawson, Montreal, 52, Design for Board of Trade Building, 53, Two Cottages, Green Ave., 54, Lindfield Church, England, 55, a Lakeside Cottage, 56 a Bit in Westminster Abbey ; Hutchison, Alex C., Montreal, 57, Two Villas at Westmount, 58 V. W. C. A. Association Building, 59 Proposed Melville Church, Westmount, 6o, Design for Hospital, 61, Design for Presbyterian Church, Point St. Charles ; Kilham, Walter H., Boston, U. S., 62, Group of French Towers, 63, Italian Doorways, 64, Study for Custom House ; Lindsay, H., Montreal, 65, Perspective of hall in Residence of Mrs. J. Levy—- Messrs. j. & H C. Nelson, architects

MacVicar, I). Norman, Montreal, 66, Sketches in Reims, France, 67, ''Town Tower," Oxford;- Maginnis, Charles D., Boston, U. S., 68, Massachusetts State House, Boston, 69, Sketches in Rouen, France ; Mann, Eric, Montreal, 70, a Street in Old Edinburgh, 71, Residence for M. S. Foley ; Maxwell, Edward, Montreal, 72, Board of Trade Building, Montreal Shepley, Rutan & Coolidge, architects 73, Westmount Primary School, 74, Bell Telephone Building, Montreal, 75 Bell Telephone Building at Winnipeg, 76, R. J. Tooke's Building, 77, Banking Room in Bell Telephone Building, Montreal, 78, Residences, Montreal, 79, Cottages, 80, a Study, 81, Chapel at Avignon, France, 82, St. Onen, Rouen, France, 83, Foreign Sketches, 84, Tower of University

Chapel Palo Alto, California, 85, Country Residence, 86, Bridge, Back Bay, Fens, Boston, 87, Study for a Residence; Miller, J. Melville, Montreal, 88, a Mountain Hotel ; Mitchell, C. Alexander, Montreal, 89, Sketch of Old House, Grey street, 90, Sketch of Old Porch in Normandy, France; Nelson, J. & H. C., Montreal, 91, Perspective of House for Mrs. J. Levy ; Nelson, H. C., Montreal, 126, The Old Savage Farmhouse, Sherbrooke Street, 27, The La Salle House, Lower Lachine Road; Patterson, C. B., Montreal, 92, Residence Baltimore, 93, Sketch for Church ; Payette, Eugene, Montreal, 94, A City Residence, Submitted in Final Examination to the P. Q. A. A.; Perrin, W. M., Montreal, 95, Perspective of Frame House, 96, Perspective of Stone House, 97, Perspective of Chapel, 98, Rendering from Photograph, 99, Cottage in Sepia ; Raza, Alphonse, Montreal, 100 Residence of 0. Faucher, 101, Club House, Lake Chapleau, 102, Residence for A. Armot Rodden, R. M., Montreal, 103, 104, 105, Plans For Public Library ; Saxe, C. J., Montreal, 106 and 107, City Mansion, 108, Colonial Residence, 109, County Residence, 110, Summer Residence, 111, Shakespeare's house, Stratford-on-Avon, 112, Sketch; Taylor, Andrew T., F R Montreal, 113, Diocesan Theological College, Montreal, 1 14, Bank of Montreal, Seigneurs Street Branch, 115, Additions to Art Gallery, Montreal, 116 Leaves From a Sketch Book; Venne, Joseph, Montreal, 1 17 and 18 Perspective views of a Church, 119, Competition Design for Church at St. Jerome; Winslow and Wetherell, Boston, U. 5., 120, [louse at Lake Massahesic N H _ 120 and 123, Houses at Brookline, 122, Business Premises for Shreve, Crump & Son, Boston.

Mr. Andrew T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A., contributed water color perspectives of buildings of actual interest, such as the Diocesan Theological College just completed, which undoubtedly ranks amongst the best of the very interesting buildings erected by this talented architect. The drawing representing- this building although well rendered in color, conveys but a faint idea of the beauty of the original. In plan three sides of a quadrangle overlook University street, the principal side carving a graceful tower in its axis while opposite an elaborate gothic gateway separates the court from the street. It is thoroughly English in character and we feel that Mr. Taylor was well at home in designing this building and succeeded without effort in making it what he intended it to be. A water color perspective of the new Art Gallery shows also with advantage, together with five or six water colors of Italian towers which could well form part of a worthy pendant to '' Sir Christopher Wren's Towers and Spires," which M r. Taylor had published in London by Botsford when practising in the Commercial Metropolis.

Mr. Joseph Venne exhibits two perspective drawings of a proposed church, one of the interior rendered in color, and one of the exterior rendered in ink. The porch is remarkably well proportioned and detailed, as is also the choir, which is well studied. The interior is of a semi—classical character and very rich and elaborate in design. An elevation of a competitive design for a church at St. Jerome also exhibited by Mr. Venne has well proportioned and arranged doorways.

Mr. A. C. Hutchison had two perspectives of villa residences erected at Westmount, designed in the American style and very well rendered in ink, together with other remarkable drawings, amongst which is the

Y.	W. C. Ass'n. building designed in very good taste. Messrs. J. & H. C. Nelson's house for Mrs. J. Levy

shown by two drawings rendered in ink is an agreeable and unpretentious design with a well arranged and detailed staircase.

Messrs. Findlay and Maxwell exhibited a large number of drawings the former having mostly pen and ink drawings, while the latter exhibited mostly water colors, which were much admired.

Nearly all of the drawings sent in by American architects are also worthy of praise, and the Arts and Crafts Department had also very interesting and numerous exhibits which would also deserve some attention but the space being so very limited in this number, little can be said for the present.

We cannot, however, close without mentioning Mr. Philippe Hebert's beautiful group entitled '' Le Rapt" representing an Indian holding a girl on his shoulder with his left hand and a threatening knife in his right hand.

Mr. Page exhibits some iron chandeliers and grilles refined in design and of a finish rarely met with in daily practice.

Briefly the success and high degree of excellence which the present exhibition has attained is a guarantee that regular and periodical exhibitions of this character will be held in the future, which institution would do a good deal for the advancement of architecture, and a more intelligent appreciation of that useful art by the masses.

