<doctype type="text">	164	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



for the first time by an Englishman. In suburbs and outskirts, in outlying towns and villages, I have rarely failed to find something Worth a walk. Surely half the charm of a lengthy tour is to discover the unknown.

In conclusion, I would venture to urge the advisability of measuring and plotting to scale on the spot, whenever practicable, whilst everything is at hand and before your eve, and when there is no possibility of the vivid impression fading from your memory.

I would only add to Mr. Bolton's admirable remarks on sketching the advice to draw firmly and strongly.









<article title=" CEMENT WORKS IN GERMANY " author="">

CEMENT WORKS IN GERMANY.

There are, according to Kuhlow, some 63 cement works in the whole of Germany. The Rhine is the principal centre of this manufacture, but in the neighborhood of Hamburg there are three or four in opera-ion for the production of the article. The annual production of Germany amounts to nearly 11 ,ooo,ooo barrels, giving employment to some I ,8oo hands, whose annual earnings amount to some £698,780. The largest customers for this article in Europe are Russia and Norway, and of transatlantic countries, the United States, Brazil, Chili and Venezuela. The exportation to Great Britain and British possessions is comparatively small. The following table gives approximately the quantity and the value exported to European and other countries

	   Country	  Cwts.	 L

	Norway	  58 ,500	 6,700

	Russia	  34.353	 2.900

	United States	1,380,872	168,000

	Brazil	446,340	40,200

	Chili	131,000	3,000

	Venezuela	103,000	9,800



<article title=" NATIVE BUILDING MATERIALS OF THE CANADIAN NORTHWEST " author="">



NATIVE BUILDING MATERIALS OF THE CANADIAN NORTHWEST.

.\	Canadian contributor to I he Engineering and Mining Journal of New York gives the following information with regard to the native materials available for building purposes in Manitoba and he North west Territories

The an ice that comes next in importance in the way of building materials to lumber is lime, which is used largely in plastering and mortar, and where good clean gravel is readily obtained, may, and in the future probably will, be utilized largely in the construction of concrete buildings. Limestone is found in drift to a greater or less extent through Manitoba and the territories. It is found in situ to an unlimited extent near the    mouth of the Red River, extending for some miles both east and west of the same. There are also large outcrops on Lakes Manitoba and Winnipegoosis, and the Rocky Mountains in this region may be said to be wholly composed of this material. The writer in preparing this paper does not desire to create the impression that he has endeavored to report all the points at which outcrops of such materials are found but is merely mentioning localities where such have come under his own personal observation.

Where limestone is being mentioned as found in situ, good quarries of the rock for building material are readily obtained in fact, in view many points are already opened and fairly well developed, and before leaving this branch of the subject ii might he well to direct your attention to the probability of very extensive quarries of limestone being developed at the narrows of Lake Manitoba, the rock there lending itself very readily to a smooth finish at a low cost, and it is also alleged that the nature of the formation is such that blocks of large size can be easily quarried.

Both granite and limestone drift rocks may be found nearly everywhere to a greater or lesser extent throughout Manitoba and the Northwest, and, where they are large enough, they can generally t)e split into any desired shape or size, and even where 

comparatively small masons can construct buildings not alone substantial but also ornamental. While on this subject ii may be of interest to mention a series of huge granite rocks which have been deposited, no doubt through the influence of ice, along the foot hills of the Rocky Mountains. To convey an idea of the size of some of these, it may he mentioned that one particular boulder located on Section 21 , Township 20, Range 1 , west of the fifth meridian, shows above ground a bulk of 50 feet in length, 30 feet in width and about 25 feet in height. How large a portion of it is hidden from sight below the ground has never been determined.

Those who have had an opportunity of seeing the bridge piers erected by lie Canadian Pacific Railway over the Winnipeg River here have no doubt been struck with the splendid appearance of these specimens of Aberdeen granite, of which they are composed. This material is obtained in the immediate vicinity and the probabilities are that there is a very large field of this stone which can be had in blocks of any dimension, and there can be no doubt it is susceptible of as high and fine a polish as its original namesake, the Aberdeen granite,'' of Scotland, and it will probably in the future take a prominent part in tile construction of any works where such material is required.

There is a large outcrop of sandstone in Lake Winnipeg, which is pronounced to be first—class. There are also some sandstones to be found in the vicinity of Turtle Mountain, the qualities of which, so far as endurance is concerned, would appear to be all that could be desired but owing 10 its color and texture it is doubtful whether it will ever fluid a market outside of the local consumption, for which, however, it is liable to become very  valuable. An outcrop of sandstone may also be seen on the Assiniboine River in the neighborhood of Indian Ford and some stone has been brought to Winnipeg from this pout but owing to its cost it was not a successful financial venture. It may be useful for local proposes, but probably not beyond that. When the Cypress Hills are reached there are a considerable number of sandstone outcrops and very extensive beds are cross—cut in p1 aces by the South Saskatchewan, the Red Deer, the North Saskatchewan, the Bow, the Belly, the St. Mary's, the waterton, and the Old Man's Rivers but the finest quality of sandstone is undoubtedly found along the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and the supply there is practically inexhaustible, enough to rebuild all the cities in the world as they exist at the present time. It would seem a great pity that with so much stone in the country our hard—earned cash should be sent across the line to our neighbors for the purchase of stone, as both quality and color is in favor of the domestic article. One is not rash in prophesying that the extensive use of the sandstone will prove anything but pleasing and soothing to the eye if carried to excess.

Vast deposits of this rock are met with in the Rocky Mountains and can be obtained in any size blocks that is required. This material is very well fitted for bridge piers, in fact any structure which is liable to be exposed to the action of water, combined with low temperature

Where the Canadian Pacific Railway crosses the backbone o the continent there is a large outcrop of slate which gives every

promise of becoming a valuable article of good quality as soon as there is demand enough to warrant capital going to the out lay of' developing. There is a deposit situated on Kicking Horse River, near its month. which was mined or quarried to some extent a few years ago. Some was shipped to the coast, but the action of the moist climate there was too severe for it and disintegration set in. It is, however, more than probable that the same slate, if used in Manitoba or the Northwest Territories, would prove a very good rooting material and wubstand the influence of the atmosphere as well as most other roofing slates.

In the Rocky' Mountains, along the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway there are to be found very large bulks of quartz carrying copper status, which are capable of receiving a high polish, and are of a very beautiful color, resembling marble in finish, and would no doubt prove useful and ornamental for the manufacture of table tops, mantels, etc.





The notice announcing to members the first meeting of the Chicago Sketch Club, following vacation, reads as follows

Members will come prepared to discuss fish stories, summer girls, century runs and similar topics.'

Mr. C. E. Sintum the Canadian Commercial Agent n Norway, reports an increasing trade between that country and the Dominion, and incidentally mentions that he recently gave a considerable order for steam radiators to a Toronto fi rm.

