<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" A NEW FLOORING MATERIAL " author="">

A NEW FLOORING MATERIAL

THE name of papyrolith is given to a novelty in flooring material which has lately been invented by Otto Kraner of Chemnitz, the article being a special preparation of paper pulp, which is in the form of a dry powder; when mixed with water it may be spread like mortar over stone, cement or wood, where it dries quickly and may be smoothly planed. besides which it may be tinted almost any color, in this way adapting it for parquetry with variegated borders, or for panels and mosaics. Among the various advantages claimed by the inventor for the use of this product are freedom from crevices, deadening of noises and poor conduction of heat, also considerable elasticity, safety from lire and remarkable durability. It may be employed too, for wainscoting and other architectural purposes, as well as for flooring.



<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.

Double-boiled" oil is that which has reached a temperature great enough to scorch a feather when held in it, and reaching about 300 degrees C.

Yellow and orange chromes have a tendency to rapidly blacken, as in the case with white lead, when exposed to sulphur gases, or when mixed with pigments containing sulphur and arsenic sulphide.

A correspondent asks a European exchange: "How are old stones best treated which are covered with soot? They are to be painted with a light color." The answer was If the soot is from wood smoke, it is best removed by the use of caustic lye soda or calcined ashes ( 1 pound to 8 pints of rain-water) ; otherwise, by means of soap lye."

The only safe way to obtain a perfectly harmonious contrast in colours is to apply them, when mixed, to the actual position they are to occupy when the scheme of decoration is completed. A series of colours that may look well indeed when used in a dimly lighted room will often appear very objectionable when exposed to a brilliant light.

A very simple remedy to remove rain spots, or such caused by water soaking through ceilings, has been employed with good results. Take unslaked white lime, dilute with alcohol, and paint the spots with it. When the spots are dry—which ensues quickly, as the alcohol evaporates and the lime forms a sort of insulating layer

-—one can proceed painting with size color, and the spots will not show through again.

The property which gives linseed oil its special value as a paint oil is that when exposed to the air it gradually becomes hard, and dries up, in doing which it takes from the atmosphere a large proportion of oxygen, forming a new compound of a resinous character, the

properties of which have never been fully investigated. In this power of combining- with oxygen, linseed is distinguished very markedly from other oils which have little or no power of combining with oxygen.

A very pretty effect has been obtained in the hall of a Brooklyn residence by hanging the walls with an Empire pattern lincrusta, the ground work of which has been painted a dull blue green, while the wreaths and flambeaux that are repeated at regular intervals upon it have been picked out with a pale Nile green. The ceiling has been tinted a greenish white, and upon it a simple fresco border has been painted, repeating the Empire flambeaux in the corners. The old-fashioned wood work, classic in its design, and the white enamelled balusters with the polished mahogany handrail, harmonize very nicely with the decoration of the walls.

RECIPES FOR WATER-PROOF GLUE. —- Water-proof glues, often used for pasting, but more frequently as a medium for colors, may be prepared in the following ways, according to the requirements of the case or the desire of the user The glue is put in water till it is soft, and subsequently melted in linseed oil at moderate heat. This glue is neither affected by water nor by vapors. Dissolve a small quantity of sandarac and mastic in a little alcohol, and add a little turpentine. The solution is boiled in a kettle over the fire, and an equal quantity of a strong hot solution of glue and isinglass is added. Then filter through a cloth while hot. Water-proof glue may also be produced by the simple addition of dichromate of potash to the liquid glue solution, and subsequent exposure to the air. Another way is by mixing glue as usual; and then adding linseed oil in the proportion of part oil to 8 parts glue. If it is desired that the mixture remain liquid, 1/2 ounce of nitric acid should be added to every pound of glue. This will also prevent the glue from souring.

<article title=" RECIPES FOR WATER-PROOF GLUE " author="">

The Council of Arts and Manufactures of Montreal, has appointed Mr. G. A. Monette, architect, Professor of Architecture of these classes



The offices of the Prismatic Glass Co., of Toronto, have been removed to 65 Yonge St., where commodious show-rooms have also been fitted up.



Edward New has established an industry for the manufacture of fire-brick and fire-clay at Hamilton, Ont. The fire-brick has been tried in the west end pottery kilns, and is said to have proved a success. Mr. New has had the products patented.

A deputation of hardware merchants recently made request of the Tariff Commissioners that the classification of hardware for customs purposes be simplified. Builders' hardware, upholsterers' hardware and saddlery hardware are all under different duties, ranging from 20 per Cent. to 35 per cent., and very much mixed. Workmen's tools are 35 per cent., builders' hardware 2 1/2 per cent., tapes 25 per cent., picks 35 per cent., sledges and crowbars 30 per cent., adzes and axes 35 per cent. An ad valorem instead of a specific duty on building paper was suggested.



The Southampton Mfg. Co., Ltd.

MANUFACTURERS OF







MOORISH FRET WORK,

SPINDLES, GAILLE

TURNED AND TWISTED MOULDING&

SPIRAL TURNINGS, QUAILS AND

SPINDLES NEWELS AND BALUSTERS

 /



Send for Catalogue



Southampton. Ontario, Canada