<doctype type="text">



























THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO Furnish INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

<article title=" Storm Windows " author="">

Storm Windows.

IT is now time in this northern climate to prepare for the winter, and abundant orders will be placed in the sash

and door factories for storm sashes and doors. In order to make storm sashes effective they should be made to cover the whole front of the window frame, and held in place by screws which should pass through the sash stile and grip the casing. This, of course, cannot be done in a majority of cases, particularly if there are venetian blinds hung to the windows, as it would entail the necessity of taking off the blind trimmings in the fall and putting them on again in the spring, with all the chances of having them mislaid or lost. When the blind trimmings prevent the screwing on of the storm sashes on the outside of the casings, they should be fitted snugly between the casings, and if the sashes are thicker than the casings, which is often the case, the inside of the sash should be rebated over the blind stop, sufficient to admit of the sash dropping into the frame far enough to let the stile be flush on the outside. When this is the case, the storm sashes may be held in place simply by the use of the common Japanned cast iron button which may be obtained at any hardware store for about ten cents a dozen. By making use of these buttons, the labor of placing and removing the storm sashes is made about as light as it is possible to make it, especially if two hardwood dowels be set in the top-rail of the sash, and corresponding holes be made in the head casing to receive the dowels; then, two buttons, one on each side of the frame, will answer for each sash. These buttons should be fixed low down the frame, near the sill, and should be tight enough to prevent any movement of the sash by the action of the wind, and thus prevent the buttons from turning and allowing the sash to get free and fall out of place.



Storm sashes should never be less than 1 3/8" in thickness indeed it would be much better it they were made 1 3/4" thick, as they meet with a good deal of bad usage and wear and tear, in being put up and taken down so often. It is a mistake, also, to make storm sashes with large lights in imitation of the sashes they cover. In the frequent removals, in and out of the window frames, the glass is liable to get broken and more particularly is this the case if the panes are large, and the cost of replacing a large pane is an item worthy of consideration. Small panes cost less if they get broken, and they are not so liable to be broken, owing to their being protected with the mullions and muntins. These mullions and muntins also strengthen the frame and fit it better for the hard usage it has to endure. It goes without

Storm Doors. <article title=" Storm Doors " author="">

saying, that storm sashes of all sorts should be well painted. In the best style of work the sashes get two coats of good paint, composed of white lead and linseed oil, before being glazed ; they should also be fitted in place and numbered before being painted, and the edges, top and bottom, as well as sides, should be painted. All the glass should be well bedded in good putty and well held down with a goodly supply of glaziers' zinc points. Much depends on having the glazing well done, for, as storm sashes are more exposed to severe weather than other sashes, special care should be taken when the glass is put in the sash, in order to make it firm and secure. Some painters mix a fair proportion of white lead, moist or dry, as may be needed, with the putty to make it adhere firmly to both glass arid wood. This method has its faults, inasmuch as should a pane of glass break, it is next to impossible to break out the putty to make room for the new glass, as the lead and putty becomes as hard as stone.



STORM doors, like storm sashes, should be made somewhat stronger than the ordinary door, and to this end, when

the doors are framed and paneled, they should have all the muntins mortised into the rails sufficiently deep to admit of tenors, not less than 2 long, which, by the way, should fit snug in the mortise, and white lead should be used as a holder instead of glue. It will be well also if the plough grooves are painted with white lead before the panels are slipped in, as, by doing so, the life of the door will be prolonged from 15 to 25 per cent. The rails should be well fastened into the stiles, and the tenons should be well painted before being driven into the mortises. It is always best to employ three butts in hanging a storm door, the third butt, besides assisting to hold the door, will do much towards preventing it from twisting or warping, a condition that too often occurs in storm doors. All the butts, of course, should have loose joints, as this will enable one to take off the door without taking off the wings of the butts. A very important matter in connection with a storm door is the lock and its furniture. This should be of the very best quality, and should be heavier than the lock on the inner door, while its furniture should be of the same style and finish. In all cases it should be a mortise lock, and should be attached to the door in the most substantial manner. The keeper should extend round the jamb a trifle if possible, in order to protect the jamb or casing from being shattered if the door should be dashed by the wind against it, while the bolt may be shot out, which is sometimes likely to happen. When storm doors are taken down in the spring, they

