<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER	209



tors by such commissioner or commissioners or board or department of health of such city.

But all inspectors of plumbing so detailed, designated or appointed, and all inspectors of plumbing hereafter appointed, shall be practical plumbers not engaged directly or indirectly in the business of plumbing during the period of their appointment and they shall be citizens and actual residents of the city in which they are appointed, and before entering upon the discharge of their duties as such inspectors each shall be required to obtain a certificate of competency from said examining board. They shall be entitled to receive compensation not exceeding five dollars per day for each day of actual service, to be fixed by the board, commissioner or department making such appointment.



8.	The duties of the inspector or inspectors of plumbing appointed under the provisions of this act, in addition to the duties prescribed by law, and those which may be enjoined or required by the commissioner of health, the board of health or the health department of the city in which they shall be appointed, shall be, to inspect the construction and alteration of all plumbing work performed in such city subsequent to the passage of this act, and to report in writing the results of such inspection to the said commissioner of health, or the board of health department of their respective cities they shall also report in like manner any person engaged in or carving on the business of employing plumber without having the certificates hereinbefore mentioned.

9.	All certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this act, and all licenses authorizing connection with street sewers or water mains, shall expire on the thirty-first day of December of the year in which they shall be issued, and may be renewed within thirty days preceding such expiration, such renewals to be for one year from the first day of January in each year.



10.	Whenever any inspector or other person reports a violation of any of said rules and regulations for plumbing and drainage, or a deviation from any officially approved plans or specifications for plumbing and drainage filed with any board or department, the local board of health shall first serve a notice of violation thereof upon the master plumber doing the work, if a registered plumber. Such notice may be served personally or by mail, and if by mail it may be addressed to such master plumber at the address registered by him with the local health board but the failure of a master plumber to register will relieve any board of health from the requirement of giving notice of violation. Unless the violation is removed within three days after the date of serving or mailing such notice, exclusive of the day of mailing or serving, the board of health may proceed according to law.

11, From and after the first day of March, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, the plumbing and drainage of all buildings, both public and private, in each of the cities of this province, shall be executed in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the local board of examiners in conjunction with the board of health for plumbing and drainage and all repairs and alterations in the plumbing and drainage of all buildings heretofore constructed shall also be executed in accordance with such rules and regulations, where the board of health shall have control, but this section shall not be construed to repeal any existing provisions of law requiring plans for the plumbing and drainage of new buildings to be filed with any local board of health and to be previously approved in writing by said board of health, and to be in accordance therewith, except that in case of any conflict between such plans and the rules and regulations of the board of examiners, the latter shall govern.



12.	Each of such boards of examiners shall have power to procure suitable quarters for the transaction of business, to provide the necessary books and stationary, and to employ a clerk to keep such books and record the transactions of such board. The board of control and apportionment of the city of Toronto and the common council of all other cities, shall annually insert in their tax levy a sufficient sum to meet the expenditures incurred under the provisions of this act and all expenses incurred by the several boards of examiners in the execution and performance of the duties imposed by this act shall be a charge on the respective

shall be audited, levied, collected and paid in the same manner as other city charges are audited, leveled collected and



18.	Any person violating any of the provisions of this act, or rules regulations of the board of health, or of the board

of examiners in any city regulating the plumbing and drainage of buildings of such city, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,  if a master plumber, shall, in addition, forfeit any certificate of competency or registration which he may hold under the provisions thereof.

14. After the passage of this act the commissioner of public works of any city, or the officer or officers acting in a like capacity in any of the cities of this province, and having charge of the sewers and water mains, shall not issue a license to anyone to connect with the sewers or with the water mains of such cities unless such person has obtained and shall produce a certificate of competency from the examining board of such city hereby created.

15. All acts or parts inconsistent with or repugnant to the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.

16. This act shall take effect immediately.



<article title=" NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER PLUMBERS " author="">

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER PLUMBERS.

THE following is a copy of the resolutions adopted by the Dominion Association of Master Plumbers to confine the sale of plumbing supplies to those legitimately engaged in the trade

Whereas, The manufacturers and wholesale dealers in plumbing material are selling to consumers, to our injury and detriment, placing us toward our customers in the light of extortionists, causing endless trouble and

Whereas, The system of protecting us from this wrong which draws in its wake other wrongs, is ineffective, it is absolutely necessary to perfect such a system by united action which will remove these evils from which we have suffered for years; therefore be it

Resolved, That the members of this association confine the purchase of plumbing material to manufacturers and wholesale dealers who sell goods to master plumbers only, as defined in these resolutions

Resolved, That this association shall keep a record of all journeymen and plumbers, who place in buildings plumbing material bought by consumers of manufacturers or dealers;

Resolved, That a committee be appointed by this association in every province and county for the purpose of reporting to the proper officers at its head in the province, any violations of these resolutions

Resolved, That these measures are just and necessary to our welfare, and a rigid enforcement is demanded

Resolved, That this convention endorse the above, and are authorized to adopt a uniform system of protection for the trade over their entire jurisdiction

Resolved, That it is not the intention of said resolutions to prevent the interchange of patented or any other plumbing material between manufacturers and wholesale dealers in such goods, or for the export trade, and that the interpretation of the above resolutions be left in the hands of the executive committee with power.



INTERPRETATION OF THE TERM "MASTER PLUMBER.

<article title=" INTERPRETATION OF THE TERM "MASTER PLUMBER " author="">

Resolved, That it is the sense of this convention that in the future the interpretation of the term master plumber,' as set forth in the above resolutions, to entitle him to purchase plumbing material, be construed to mean a master plumber who has an established or place of business and represents the industry of plumbing, and who has qualified under the dominion, provincial or local enactments regulating plumbing and plumbers, where such exist; or, where no license is required, an individual or firm with an established place of business and representing the industry of plumbing;

Resolved, That any manufacturer or dealer in plumbing material furnishing net prices, or any discount from list prices to others than master plumbers, either by themselves, employees, or agents, shall be considered as disapproving the above resolutions

Resolved, That the supply houses doing a plumbing supply business, and contracting for plumbing work, shall be considered unjust competitors.

The following are exempt from the above resolutions:

The dominion and provincial governments, mines, and street railway companies.

Provincial and city institutions.

Railroad, gas, water and electric light companies only fur such goods as are necessary for their respective lines of business.

The above resolutions apply to the whole Dominion of Canada.

