<doctype type="text">



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

LEAD, COPPER AND ZINC FOR ROOFING.* <article title=" LEAD, COPPER AND ZINC FOR ROOFING " author="Ewart, G.">

In attempting to compare the relative claims of each of the three metals lead, zinc and copper—as materials for roof covering, one has first to consider what are the chief requirements for a material used for this purpose.

These may he stated in the following order First OF all, durability then lightness ; then workableness next, capacity to resist fire ; and lastly insonorousness.

Although the question of durability must be decided chiefly by experience and observation of special instances, yet something may be predicted as at least highly probable from a consideration of the texture of the metal and its liability to corrosion from acids, etc. Into this inquiry, of course, the element of weight largely enters, and I therefore take the opportunity of naming specific gravity and atomic weights of each of the three metals

	Specific Gravity			Atomic Weights.

Lead		11' 4	Lead		207

Copper		88	Copper		635

Zinc		6'9	Zinc		65



or, taking the weight of a superficial foot 1-16 in. thick we find it

	Lead	about 3 3/4 lbs.

	Copper                                       2 3/4

	Zinc                                         2 1/4



Thus, if weight were the only consideration in this inquiry as to durability, lead would be nearly twice as durable as zinc and at least a third more durable than copper. But there is another element which must be equally considered namely, the hardness or, rather, firmness of the material, and perhaps this property can best be indicated by the relative amount of conductivity, which in lead may be represented by 230 nearly twice as high in zinc, say 430 ; while in copper it is more than twice as high as zinc and more than four times as high as lead, viz., 1,000.

And the conclusion which we might derive from these figures is corroborated by those which represent the fusibility of the different metals, viz., lead, 630 deg. Fahr.; zinc, 800 deg. Fahr.; and copper, nearly four times that of lead and nearly three times that of zinc, VIZ., 2,143 deg. Fahr.

It thus appears that though lead is so very much heavier than the other two metals, its want of firmness is still more conspicuous, and, on the whole, roughly it might be guessed that lead and copper would, surrounding conditions being equal, be of about equal durability, particularly as neither of these metals is easily acted upon by acids.

As to zinc, although it occupies a middle place between Lad and copper, both in the matter of weight and also of firmness, it is yet quite out of the competition as to durability from the fact that acids act upon it with great facility.

The softness of lead has its advantages, since it is easy to use it of great thickness, while at the same time the low price makes it possible to do this without a prohibitive outlay so that lead may be laid of a thickness weighing perhaps 6 lbs. or 7 lbs. to the foot as easily as copper weighing only 16 oz or 18 OZ. to the foot. And at these relative weights it would be fair to assume that the metals would be about equally durable. Experience endorses these assumptions, and it is found to be practically the case that zinc, laid of the best thickness which it is worth while to use, say about 1 1/2 lbs. to the superficial foot, will keep a root sound from twenty to thirty years, while copper of 16 oz. to the foot, or lead of 7 lbs. form either of them a practically permanent covering lasting 100 years or upwards ; that is to say, if properly laid and in favorable situations.

But the question of durability cannot be disposed of without a consideration of the property of expansion. When a zinc flat lets in water, and has to be taken up for renewal, it is often seen that the metal is not perished, but is split into cracks. The heat of the sun has so increased the size of the metal that, having been



*One of a series of papers on "Roof Coverings," read before the London Architectural Association by Mr. G. Ewart.

fastened by nails, or soldered together in large sheets, it has risen in buckles. When a shower of rain or a cold night has followed, the metal has contracted, and so caused the cracks. If the expansion of zinc is set down at 30, lead will show 28, and copper only 19.

In laying either of the metals care has to be taken to allow for expansion, and if the proper methods are adopted much can he done to prevent the injurious effects of it.

There is one thing to consider viz., the capacity to bear traffic without injury. Fiat roofs are very likely to be walked over, and to have things placed upon them, round or under which dirt or moisture can collect. On account of its extreme softness, lead, unless very thick, is easily damaged by traffic ; and zinc, although harder, is brittle, and is also easily corroded by foreign matter and both, as already mentioned are exceedingly liable to buckles and cracks. Copper, on the other hand, is so tough that it is practically uninjured by traffic and little liable to corrosion. It should, however, be laid with wood rolls and welted caps, and not according to the old method of stand-up welts.

So far for flat roofs. For pitched roofs and towers or spires the great weight of lead is much against its use. In such positions lead has a way of crawling down, as it is called, and this is a very destructive process and greatly shortens its usefulness. As an instance of this I may mention that some years ago we had an order to cover the spire of St. Peter's Church, Cornhill, with copper. It was then covered with lead, which we ascertained had been laid in the year 1804.

When the lead was stripped off it was found to be very thick—some of it at least from 10 lb. to 2 lb. to the foot, and was not perished, but was very badly torn and cracked through the expansion and contraction and the creeping down in some places, and the giving way of the wood supports in others. In fact, its own weight had destroyed it.

The copper which we put on in place of it would weigh perhaps not more than one—eighth or one-tenth of the lead, and would rather tend to support the woodwork than require to be supported by it. The key which forms a sort of finial on the top of the spire was in good repair and did not require renewal it was of copper. It is said, but 1 am not sure upon what evidence, that the lead on the roof of Bristol Cathedral crawled down as much as 18 in. in two years.

The extreme softness of lead makes it unfit for ornamental work. It is always necessary, when lead is being used, that the wood should first he formed into the shapes, and the lead dressed closely over these ; on account of their stiffness zinc and copper do not require the mouldings and ornaments tobe formed in the wood, but are sufficiently supported by a rough wood core. Zinc, however, suffers in the process of stamping and hammering, as it is seriously injured by application of heat.

Copper, on the other hand, may be heated to a red, or even a white glow, and then immersed in cold water without being in any way injured, but by this annealing, as it is called, is rendered soft and pliable, and regains its stiffness under the hammer or stamp.

On these accounts copper has come to be very much used for ornamental roofs and for spires, fleches, finials figures, etc., for which it is also specially adapted on account of the little weight per foot which is necessary to use. 

Lead has been so very largely used for roofs for many hundreds of years that it is unnecessary to quote in stances as to its lasting power when properly laid on flat roofs, but as the durability of copper is not so well known, I may mention one or two examples.

The tower of the parish church of Hampstead was covered with copper in the year 1784, and the copper is still in good condition, being of a beautiful green color. Some years ago, however, in a severe gale, two or three of the sheets were blown off, and had to he replaced by new sheets, which, of course, have still the dark look. Mr. Clowser, a builder, of Hampstead, told us that his old father knew that the tower was covered with copper over 100 years ago, and the church records give the date above mentioned.

