<doctype type="text">



have cut loose from all this ; his business is merely to sell, and the client may look after himself. He must know, if he is really an architect, how important to a plan is the right aspect of its rooms, and how impossible it is to reverse a good plan without completely overthrowing all that made it good. That a kitchen should be in the cool part of the house, a dining room where it will get the morning sun, that a drawing room is best with a western light, that bedrooms should not look to the north if it can be avoided, nor a porch be set to catch the northwest winds, nor a furnace placed on the lee side from the same cold quarter are all commonplaces of house planning. Yet this vendor of plans, if in his unprogressive days he has designed a house with the dining room in the south and the kitchen in the north, is quite willing to reverse the plan now and introduce a modern method of baking the cook in summer in a south kitchen, as a set off to freezing the householder at his breakfast in winter in a north dining room and to say nothing to his client about the changed state of affairs. It would have been all right if the prospectus instead of reading "This plan can be reversed free of charge. Regular professional fee is $53. Our price is only $10,"

had read " Our price for this plan is only $10, but if your lot faces the other way do not on any account order this plan, but have a house planned for your own lot at the regular professional fee of $53 and you will find that the difference, which is only $43, will pay for itself over and over again by giving you a house that you can live in with comfort or keep always let." In dealing thus honestly with the public in offering his old plans our progressive architect would have secured confidence for the branch of his prospectus entitled " Plan of Your Own." Here he offers —always in connection with the mail order department—to "work up a sketch" from instructions or a rough plan. Consideration of the price is in this case reserved until the sketch is made, and—though under ordinary circumstances we have no wish to interfere with any man's method of doing business—since our prospectus writer introduces his own way of doing business to the public by way of an attack upon the usual methods, we can only say that, in comparison with this method of dealing with the question of cost, the usual method of percentage fees, clumsy as it is, seems safer for the client.



<article title=" AN EDUCATIONAL STANDARD FOR  ARCHITECTS " author="">

AN EDUCATIONAL STANDARD FOR  ARCHITECTS.

WITH the election of Major McKinley to the Presidency by a substantial majority is accomplished the last of the departures in the public affairs of the United States and our own country, which business men have promised would be turning points in business affairs, and we may hope now for the beginnings of revival in trade.

When the building trade begins to look up we fancy there will be noticeable a greater merit in the buildings than in those erected during the last period of energy. Although building has been slack during these last six years, architects and architectural students have not been idle. The architectural societies of Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia were started at the close of the boom times, and, though they have been much hampered by the bad times, they have done enough work to justify their existence. The education of an architect, which before 1890 was an indefinite matter, is now scheduled. Every student in these provinces may

hear exactly what he ought to know ; has books and opportunity provided, and the guide and stimulus of a system of graded examinations, The architects who have been engaged in forming the libraries, ordering the curriculums and conducting the examinations, have themselves profited by being concerned in these things. They have also had their conventions, have profited by hearing papers—still more, no doubt, by writing them-—and perhaps most of all by the mere fact of meeting together to hear and discuss them. Architects know one another now as they did not formerly; there is a greater interchange of ideas ; the sociable condition, which is essential to the development of all art workers, is much better established now than formerly. In fact, the architects have had an enforced opportunity for reflection, and the associations were instituted just in time to give them the means of profiting by it We may therefore consider that in the space between the good times which are past and the good times which are coming on, the educational ideal of architects has been recognized, and the architects themselves are better conformed to it than formerly. As the next period of prosperity will see the erection of more important and permanent investments than the previous period, there is cause for satisfaction that the education standard has been raised. The pity is that it has not been placed in a position from which there is no retreat. If the proposal brought forward last year in this province to make the title "architect" a degree accompanying a diploma, had been put through the house we should now be able to look forward to the next period of building with the confidence that at least all the juniors concerned in it—and in their hands would usually be the actual draughting and detailing -would be trained men. Great results might have flowed from a fundamental measure of that kind— indeed may yet flow from such a measure, for it is likely that the measure will not be dropped after having so nearly met success.

It is impossible for anyone who has at heart the growth of a good style of building in the country not to wish that the architectural societies, or some other bodies, were made the agents of the government for the education of all architects. Each pile of building material brought to a site depends upon the architect for its ultimate value as much as does a lump of clay upon the hand of the potter. The architect's work is the creation of property out of raw material, and it is but a short-sighted policy that takes no account of provision for his training.

It is true that all building in the country is not done by architects; indeed, it is probable that if a line of demarcation is drawn between architects and builders the country builder and designer will have a status which he never had before. But to throw a line of building more definitely into the builder's hands for design as well as building is more likely than otherwise to stimulate his taste for good design. In the older countries there has been excellent work done by builders in a traditional manner of work. In any case, he is bound to rise in his style if the architects do. He is a quick and skillful imitator. It is his manner of designing. His facility is with his materials; his ideas he gets from example, and though it is the custom to abuse the builder's design, he has usually much practical sagacity, and knows a good thing when he sees it. At the back of the builder's design is always the architect, and the more a good style of building is diffused among architects the better will

