<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" PATENT PLASTERS " author="">

PATENT PLASTERS.

By "PLASTERER.



ATENT plasters, or machine made mortars, have come to stay. It would therefore appear to be the duty of our architects, and more particularly of the department





P.

of the School of Science devoted to Architecture, to give some attention to their patents, formula and chemical constituents.



Without pretending to know all of the claimants in this line, I can mention Adamant, Kings Windsor, Selenite Paristone Rock, Paragon, Standard, Diamond, Economic, Acme Aggatite and Royal. The last three all claim to be nature's own plastering as they are made from a clay or earth found in the Western States which requires only calcimining to make cement. I under stand that they derive their setting properties from magnesia or magnetite and lime carbonate in this clay. Our School of Science might enlighten us here, as it is most probable that there are similar deposits in Ontario. All the others are, I believe, compounded from gypsum as a base, and have no doubt, an equal claim on nature. Selenite is English in its origin and has a good reputation there. It contains a much greater proportion of lime than other plasters.

Adamant, the first and most prominent, was the result of a patent by Carl Straub for a compound to increase the strength and hardness of calcined plaster. A company was formed in Syracuse which succeeded in making a good wall plaster from this patent. They then sold territorial rights throughout the United States and England—to make Adamant wall plaster from their patent and formula—retaining to themselves the manufacture of the chemical retarder and hardener upon which the patents were based and selling them to licensees. Their formula required the mixture of their chemical with calcined plastering sand and other ingredients, and the selling of a completed product ready for use with addition of water only. The local materials in different territories-—even the sand and very often the water—differed so greatly that the licensees were obliged to alter and change the formula to such an extent that they became so expert that many of them made their own chemical and renamed their product. In this way most of the varieties in the market to-day have originated—many have changed their method by making the cement or plaster complete, excepting the sand, which is added by the plasterer when using the material. This cheapens the product by lessening the cost of freight and cartage.

In a factory where these plasters are made, the mixture is generally exact and governed by weights each maker has tested and mixed his proportions, and the resulting product is uniform. When one of these plasters are specified there is a reasonable certainty of strong sound work, although it may not look as well as the old lime mortar. Owing to the better material, it is more

expensive and to keep down the cost it has to be put on very thin. This does not injure the quality of the wall, but the opportunity to straighten the defects of carpenter and bricklayer are greatly lessened.

Iii	Toronto we have good lime and good sand, and the opportunity for these patent plasters has been confined to work that requires to be done quickly. The extra cost has had most to do with this. Two coat work with lime mortar can be done for 2Octs. or less, where it is difficult to execute work with any of the patent plasters for less than 30cts per yard. This combination was too much for the Adamant Co. who were compelled to close their Canadian branch from lack of business. This is to be regretted, for their completed product ready for use by adding water was very convenient and reliable it offered fewer opportunities for adulteration and its place is only partly filled by the others at

present on the market, as they all sell their cement without sand. It is to be regretted that the first cost always plays such an important part in the completion of our buildings. Expensive

papers and elaborate decorations are often put upon plastering so bad that it cannot hold its own weight, with disastrous results in many instances.

Most of the plasters in the market are good and deserve attention. If they are noticed and specified much greater care than is usually exercised by architects is required if they wish to get good lime mortar. I would like to see an intelligent interest displayed in this subject, and hope these desultory remarks may assist in drawing attention to an important but much neglected feature of architectural works.





PEARCE v COGHILL was an action under the workmen's Compensation Act and at common law to recover damages for injuries sustained by plaintiff, a laborer employed by defendant Coghill to work upon a contract for the laying of sewer pipes at time foot

Toronto, by the falling of a pipe up-

of Vonge street, in the city of

on him, which broke his thigh. Time Constructing and Paving Company the contractors for the work, and the defendant Coghill was a subcontractor. Judgment was given for the plaintiff, the trial judge, Chief Justice Meredith, holding that there was no defect in the material or plant supplied by the company, and that the company did not supply the scantling used as a pry in lowering the pipes, which was therefore pail of the machinery or



Plant in use. Plaintiff contended that the machinery thus used was dangerous and not fit for the purpose, and that the accident would not have occurred had a derrick been used. Geo. Ross, for defendants, the Constructing and Paving Company, contra. The appeal taken by the plaintiff solicitor from this judgment dismissing the action against the Construction and Paving Company, was argued before Justice Rose and MeMahon, in the Common Pleas Division of the Divisional Court at Toronto, and was dismissed.





1896





STEEL-CLAD

BATH

Is now manufactured in the spacious new factory built specially to meet thc growing demand for this justly popular article.









GEO. Booth President.

Jos. WRIGHT, Vice-Pres.

A.	G. BOOTH, Sec-TREAS.

THE TORONTO STEEL-CLAD BATH AND METAL CO., Ltd.

