<doctype type="text">	208	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 

<article title=" PROPOSED LEGISLATION AFFECTING PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE.

" author="">

PROPOSED LEGISLATION AFFECTING PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE.

WE are permitted to print below a copy of a proposed act which has been drafted by Mr. W. J. Burroughes, of Toronto, the object of which is to secure the registration of master plumbers and the supervision of plumbing and drainage in the cities of Ontario, The bill will in all probability be presented at the next session of the Ontario Legislature, when it is hoped to secure its adoption. Mr. Burroughes has not yet submitted the bill to the city authorities or to the Ontario officers of the Master Plumbers' Association, and it is not unlikely that some slight amendments will be made thereto before presentation.

A perusal of the different sections leads one to the conviction that the desired legislation will be favorably received, inasmuch as the objects sought are largely for the protection of the general public, who suffer as the result of defective plumbing and drainage. Under the present conditions any person is permitted to undertake plumbing work without producing proof of qualification, and consequently much inferior plumbing is allowed to be placed in buildings, which besides endangering the lives of the inhabitants, sooner or later requires to be renewed at a large expense to the owner.

The proposed bill is entitled " An Act to Secure the Registration of Plumbers and the Supervision of Plumbing and Drainage in the Cities in the Province of Ontario," and reads as follows

1.	Within ninety days after the passage of this act it shall be the duty of the mayor of each of the cities of this province to appoint a board for the examination of plumbers for such city, where such board shall act, to be known as the "examining and supervising board of plumbers and plumbing. Such board shall consist of five persons, of whom two shall be employing or master plumbers of riot less than ten years' experience in the business of plumbing, and one shall be a journeyman plumber of like experience, and the other members of said board shall be the chief inspector of plumbing and drainage of the board of health of such city, and the chief engineer having charge of sewers of said city but in the event of there being no such officers in such city, then any two other officers having charge or supervision of the plumbing, drainage or sewerage, whom the mayor shall designate or appoint, or two members of the board of health of such city having like duties or acting in like capacities. The term of office of the master and journeymen plumbers first appointed under the provisions of this act shall be as follows

One shall be appointed for one year, one for two years, and one for three years, their terms of office to expire respectively one two and three years from and after the thirty-first day of December of the year in which such appointments shall be made, and the mayor, in making the first appointments, shall for each one so appointed specify the duration of the term of office to which he makes said appointments respectively and annually thereafter upon the expiration of the term of office of any such member of the board, his successor shall be appointed by the mayor for the term of three years or until a successor shall be appointed, and the mayor shall have power to fill any vacancy caused in such board of examiners by the death, removal, inability to act, resignation or removal from the city of any member thereof, and such appointment shall be for the unexpired term.

Such chief inspector of plumbing and drainage, and such chief engineer in charge of sewers or the officers holding equivalent positions or acting in like capacities designated or appointed by the mayor as herein provided, shall be deemed to be also exofficio members of such examining board, and when they shall cease to hold the offices by reason or on account of which they were so designated or appointed, their successors shall act on the examining board in their stead.

2.	It shall be the duty of such ex-officio members of the board of examiners to discharge their duties as members of this board without compensation therefor. The master and journeymen plumbers serving as members of such board shall severally be paid at the rate of five dollars per day for each days services

when actually engaged in the performance of the duties pertaining to the office, but such compensation shall not exceed the sum of five dollars per month in cities of one hundred thousand inhabitants or less, nor thc sum of ten dollars per month in cities having a population of over one hundred thousand and less than three hundred thousand.

3.	All the members of such board shall be citizens and actual residents of the city in which t they are appointed.

4.	The several boards of examiners constituted under this act shall have power and it shall be their duty

(i.) Meetings—To meet at stated intervals in their respective cities; they shall also meet whenever the board of health of such city, or the mayor thereof, shall in writing request them so to do.

(2.) Exarninations.—---To have jurisdiction over and to examine all persons desiring or intending to engage in the trade, business or calling of plumbing as employing plumbers in the city in which such board shall be appointed, with the power of examining all persons applying for certificates of competency as such employing or master plumbers, or as inspectors of plumbing, to determine their fitness and qualifications for conducting the business of master plumbers or to act as inspectors of plumbing, and to issue certificates of competency to all such persons who shall have submitted to and passed a satisfactory examination before such board, and shall be by it determined to be qualified for conducting the business as employing or master plumbers or competent to act as inspectors of plumbing.

(3.) Plumbing Code.—To formulate, in conjunction with the local board of health of the city in which it shall act, a code of rules regulating the work of plumbing and drainage in such city, including the materials, workmanship and manner of executing such work, and from time to time to add to, amend or alter the same.



(a.) Fees.—To charge and collect from each person applying for examination the slim of five dollars for each examination made by said board, and such moneys to be paid monthly to the treasurer of such city in which said board shall be appointed.

5.	Any person desiring or intending to conduct the trade, business or calling of a plumber or of plumbing, in any of the cities of this province as employing or master plumber, shall be required to submit 10 an examination before such board of examiners as to his experience and qualifications in such trade, business or calling; and after the first clay of March, eighteen hundred and ninety— seven, it shall not be lawful in any city of this province for any

person to conduct such trade, business or calling, unless he shall have first obtained a certificate of competency from such board of the city in which he conducts, or proposes to conduct, such business.

6.	On or before the first day of March, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven every employing or master plumber carrying on his trade, business or calling in any of the cities of this province shall register his name and address at the office of the board of health of the city in which he shall conduct such business, under such rules and regulations as the respective boards of health of each of thc cities of this province shall respectively prescribe, and thereupon he shall be entitled to receive a certificate of such registration, provided, however, that such employing or master plumber shall, at the time of applying for registration, hold a certificate of competency from an examining board but such registration may be cancelled by such board of health for a violation of the rules and regulations for the plumbing and drainage of such city duty adopted and in force therein, after a hearing had before said board of health, and upon a prior notice of not less than ten days, stating the grounds of complaint and served upon the person charged with the violation of the aforesaid rules and regulations but such revocation shall not be operative unless concurred in by a majority of the local board of examiners.

And after the first day of March, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, it shall not be lawful for any person to engage in, or carry on the trade, business or calling of an employing or master plumber in any of the cities of this province unless his name and address shall have been registered as above provided.

7.	Within sixty days after the organization of such examination board in any of the cities of this province, the local board of health, or the commissioner or commissioners of the board of health or the health department thereof, as the case may be, shall detail, designate, or appoint for the purposes of this act and the enforcement of the provisions thereof and the work of inspecting the plumbing and drainage of buildings, in said city, an inspector or inspectors of plumbing, subject, however, to the provisions or limitations of existing laws regulating the appointment of inspect

