<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	161



ILLUSTRATIONS.

ENTRANCE TO VICAR'S CLOSE, WELLS CATHEDRAL. SKETCHED BY MR. FRANK 5. BAKER, A. R. I. B. A.



RESIDENCE OF MR. COLUMBUS GREENE, ST. GEORGE STREET,



TORONTO. BEAUMONT JARVIS, ARCHITECT.



The materials employed in the construction of this house are plum-colored hard burned brick and light grey stone. The trimmings are painted in bronze green



YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION BUILDING, LONDON,

	ONT.	MOORE & HENRY ARCHITECTS.



The building is 110 feet by 100 feet, stories high, built of stone and brick. with slate roof and plate glass Will do Ws.



the basement contains the bowling alleys, swimming tank, locker and dressing rooms, shower, tub and needle baths, toilet rooms, heating apparatus, etc. The first floor contains an octagonal reception hall, secretary's offices, boys' rooms, reading room, large parlor, lecture hall and gymnasium, together with cloak rooms and toilet rooms. The auditorium is also on the first floor with a separate entrance having direct access to the street. The second floor contains the board room, ladies' parlor, large entertainment hall, kitchen, upper part of gymnasium with running track and visitors' gallery and the gallery of the auditorium, also the quarters of the London Entomological Society. The third floor contains class rooms, public and private offices, cloak rooms, etc.



The whole building is thoroughly lighted and ventilated, having wide corridors running through to connect the different apartments wide staircases, and is to be heated by low—pressure steam with thorough ventilation. The contracts call for the building to be completed in October, 1896.



DESCRIPTION OF The FIRST PRIZE DESIGN FOR THE CANTILEVER BRIDGE, OVER THE RIVER ST. LAWRENCE BY EDWARD S. SHAW, C. E., BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.

<article title=" DESCRIPTION OF The FIRST PRIZE DESIGN FOR THE CANTILEVER BRIDGE, OVER THE RIVER ST. LAWRENCE BY EDWARD S. SHAW, C. E., BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A." author="">

It is proposed to build this bridge over the River St. Lawrence, about two miles below the Victoria bridge, with a long cantilever span of I 250 feet, over the main ship channel and at a clear height, throughout the central portion of this span, of 150 feet above the summer level of the river. The approach viaduct on the Montreal side will commence near the corner of Deiorimier avenue and St. Catherine street, silence upon a curve and over the shore span of the cantilever bridge to the main pier of the long span, situated on the edge of the wharf near Belle Rive Park. Thence the long span crosses the main channel to the other main pier and beyond to an anchorage pier, both upon le Ronde, a small island in the river just below St. Helen's Island. from le Ronde the wider but shallower portion of the river is crossed by a bridge and viaduct on a descending grade to the Longueun shore.



in	the advertisement for competitive designs issued by the Montreal Bridge company, certain requirements were given, the most important of which were the length of and clear height above water of the channel span, and the nature of the traffic over the bridge to be provided for, this latter being stated to require two railway tracks, two tracks for electric street cars, a high way for ordinary vehicles and two footways. Other minor stipulations were made, and a blue print outline of a design was sent out to applicants, but it was stated

that these were not intended to hamper designers, original designs being invited.



The accompanying illustrations show, as one of the main features of this design, two massive stone piers, situated upon the margins of the main ship channel on the Montreal wharf and on lle Ronde, each 110 feet by 30 feet in plan, at the top, and rising to a height of 6o feet above the summer level of the river, these piers being Surmounted by the balanced articles, of compound curvature, of the superstructure. Ill continuation of the ascending lines of the stone pier, a steel pier or column of massive proportions towers to the height of 230 feet above the sub—pier, or fully 300 feet from summer water to the lanterns or turrets upon the summit.



From the tops of these towers the tipper cords descend in approximate catenary curves, suggesting the curves of the main cables of a suspension bridge, to the bulletin with the free span of 350 feet which connects the two cantilever arms these arms being each 450 feet in length.



Tile long span of 1 250 feet and its two flanking spans of 600 feet each are divided by the four main trusses into three longitudinal ways, the middle of which, 26 feet in clear width, carries the double track steal railway, while the two side passages, each 2 I 1/2 feet in clear width, suffice for the highway and street car tracks. Bracketed out from the outer trusses are the sidewalks, 6 feet in clear width each.



Throughout the middle portion of the long span, for a distance of 650 feet, the elevations of the several ways are practically the same this portion of the bridge being built with a camber or slight upward curve increasing the headroom at the centre to 153 feet. Commencing at points 011 this span, distant 300 feet from each of the main piers, the approach grades (2 per cent. and 4 per cent. respectively), of the railway and highway commence, the greater grade of the highway, street car tracks and sidewalks sufficing to bring down these portions of the floor enough to pass under the railway tracks upon the spans adjacent to the anchor piers, and to continue under, and descend with the same grade as the railway tracks, upon the approaches.



The main trusses or longitudinal supporting frames of the cantilever and flanking spans, as well as the trusses of the approaches are built vertical or plumb, instead of ill planes inclined outwardly or ''battering," as Ill the Forth bridge and also in many high viaducts and long span arch bridges. Where a bridge supports only a single or double track railway or narrow or medium width highway it is necessary to spread the base of the supporting trusses, arches or towers, to secure sufficient stability to prevent the structure from being overturned by' excessive wind pressure, but in this structure on account of the great breadth of the bridge required for the several ways, this breadth being 8o feet measured between centres of outer trusses, it is apparent that it may not be necessary to slope or batter the trusses in order to obtain the requisite base to render the structure stable against the most severe winds of ordinary or periodical and frequent occurrence and in this design the trusses have been placed in vertical planes, with advantages of simplicity of design and cost of construction, In the main piers steel buttresses are built out at right angles to the plane of the trusses, Increasing the width of the superstructure base, and heavy steel anchors are provided, extending down almost to the base of the masonry sub-piers near their

