<doctype type="text">

basins; 3, open stand-pipe overflow basins ; and 4, secret waste-valve basins.

Tip-up basins are generally condemned, because in their usual form they have objectionable features. It' the receiver could only be arranged so that it would not become foul, or that it was readily accessible for cleaning, this type of basin would have many merits. It is, without doubt, very convenient in use, has no concealed overflow, no chain and plug, is rapidly emptied and flushes its waste pipe and trap well at each discharge.

The objections to the second type, the common chain and plug basin, are too well-known to need further comment. It is proper, however, to state that there has recently been put upon the market some modified forms of this type, which I consider great improvements upon the ordinary type. One is a siphon-basin, which empties rapidly and flushes its overflow at each discharge. The overflow channel is so shaped that when the plug is inserted in the bottom of the bowl and the same filled with water, the overflow is trapped. In office-buildings and in hotels, where a stand-pipe overflow basin or a bowl with waste-valve is too expensive and too complicated for general use, the siphon form of basin has much to recommend it. The other improved form is a chain-and-plug bowl in which the waste outlet has been greatly enlarged, and which has the usually hidden overflow channel made much shorter and accessible by means of a removable strainer.

The third type of basin has an open stand-pipe over-flow, and there are numerous modifications of the device for raising the standpipe. From a sanitary point of view, this type has, undoubtedly, the greatest merit of all forms, still my experience has been that the general public is hardly sufficiently educated in sanitary matters to appreciate its merits. By many this form of basin is utterly condemned on account of its odd shape and appearance. The favorite form of basin is just the one which has the most objections from the hygienic standpoint, namely, the bowl with secret waste valve. To discuss its objectionable features in detail would lead us too far.

Regarding that valuable fixture for personal cleanliness, the tub or bath-tub with its various modified forms, such as the foot-tub, the sitz-bath, the hip-bath, the bidet, etc., I would state that tubs of wood lined with copper are less used than formerly in private houses, probably because they always require some sort of wooden casing, and also because they lose their bright appearance in use. Enamelled iron tubes, standing free from the wall and raised from the floor, constitute a satisfactory sanitary fixture, which is only surpassed by the beautiful all porcelain bath-tubs. Both kinds of tubs are now obtainable with a glazed roll rim, thus doing away entirely with all woodwork. I ought, perhaps, to mention in this connection, that a great improvement in the manufacture of American earthenware has recently taken place, and that it is now for the first time possible to obtain porcelain bath tubs made in this country. In regard to the appliances used for holding water in the bath tub, and for emptying the same, much of what I said of wash basins applies here. In this matter I may appear to you old fashioned, when I state that my decided preference is for an open stand-pipe overflow.

For baths in public institutions, for baths in factories, and for people's baths, there is a growing tendency to discard the tub bath in favor of the rain or spray bath,

which is greatly superior from a sanitary point of view, besides having many economical advantages.

Slop sinks and housemaids' sinks are obtainable in a variety of serviceable forms, most of them excellent from the sanitarium's point of view. I would only remark that a flushing cistern is quite as essential in the case of a slop sink as in that of water closets. An ingenious and novel arrangement consists in a slop sink, which flushes itself automatically each time slops are emptied into it.

Kitchen sinks are likewise obtainable in a variety of materials. This fixture is much improved by changing the dribbling stream passing through its waste into a quick and effective flush. Attempts in this direction have been made with some success, and the devices employed are certainly worth considering. Incidentally, the question of avoiding the kitchen grease nuisance is thereby solved, in a better way, to my mind, than by the employment of grease traps at the sinks, which invariably constitute a nuisance, are usually forgotten or neglected and are not to be recommended. I must content myself with a mere allusion to the subject.

Of urinals, it is only necessary to mention that in private houses their use is not to be encouraged, as the fixture is very difficult to keep clean. In offices and in public buildings, such as hotels, railroad stations, court houses, etc., the fixture is a necessity, and great attention is required not only in the fitting up, but in its maintenance. '[he projecting lip of porcelain urinals seems to me to be of doubtful advantage. One point in the fitting up of the fixture is worthy of mention The bowls are generally set up too high from the floor slab. I find it is better to set them at a height not exceeding twenty-two inches from top of lip to floor line, instead of twenty-four to twenty-six inches, as is customary. The floor-slab is thereby kept more readily free from drippings.

In fitting up plumbing fixtures, the chief aim should always be the avoidance of woodwork at and around them. All fixtures should stand free from the walls and be accessible on all sides. Even the seats of water-closets are now attached directly to the bowl, the closet thus stands absolutely free and detached from the wall, and the entire fixture can be reached for cleaning and for repairs. In one respect, however, modern plumbing fixtures are open to considerable improvement I refer to the undesirable noisiness accompanying the flush and the discharge of the fixtures. This problem, as experience teaches, is not easily solved.

The time at my disposal permits only a brief allusion to the testing of plumbing work. All work should be tested before acceptance, as knowledge of the safety of the plumbing work can only be obtained in this way. I regret to say that I have found only very few mechanics doing plumbing who apply to their work any test, except where this is specially insisted upon by the architect or engineer. To my mind, it is one of the most important duties which architects owe to their clients, to see to it that all work is tested. For new work we have the water test and the air pressure test. This should include not merely the main horizontal lines and the vertical stacks, but likewise all the branches, and the brass ferrule joints. The finished work should be tested by the peppermint or by the smoke test, which help to show imperfections in the joints of nickel-plated piping and at the floor joints, In the inspection of old

