<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND	177



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

<article title=" DEFECTIVE PLUMBING " author="">

DEFECTIVE PLUMBING.



"Property, a real estate paper published in this city, recently printed the following :—" Two cases have just been reported to us which prove the folly of getting a cheap plumber, who will turn out a job that is always unsatisfactory and sooner or later leads to further expense. In repairing the closet in a house in this city the workman happened to strike the ventilator in the ceiling with his head. It fell down with such a slight knock that the man looked at the bole and found that the ventilator was a dummy one, not going beyond the plastering of the ceiling, and of course it was not of the slightest use, In the other case, one of our leading plumbers was called in to examine some tenements where the tenants complained of bad smells and leaks. On examination he found that the soil pipes were made of galvanized iron and had naturally been rusted into holes, allowing both gas and water to escape. The whole of the houses had to be done over again, entailing double expense and a lot of trouble. Moral:

Get your plumbing done by a reliable firm.



SAFETY OF FLOORS.

<article title=" SAFETY OF FLOORS " author="">

The City Building Inspector reports as the result of his investigations into the cause of the collapse of the building in this city in which the recent fatal fire occurred, that the falling of the upper floor was due to overloading with merchandise. The floor was so far overloaded that the additional weight imposed by the water thrown into the building by the firemen caused the supporting beams to bend and give way. The Practice of loading floors of warehouses with merchandise to an unlimited extent, and without taking the precaution to enquire what load they were originally designed to bear, is far too common in all cities. The means for the prevention of accidents from this cause are provided in the draft building by-law prepared by the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, and now under consideration by the City Council, as follows

"The floors in all buildings hereafter erected, or floors in existing buildings which may be renewed, shall be so constructed as to carry safely the weight to which the proposed weight of the building will subject them, but the least capacity per superficial square foot exclusive of materials in floor, shall be as follows: For floors of dwellings, 70 pounds; floors of offices, 100 pounds; for places of public assembly and schools, warehouses, stores, factories and buildings for other commercial purposes, 150 and upwards, according to the use for which they are intended.



"In all warehouses, storehouses, factories, workshops and stores, where heavy materials are kept or stored or machinery introduced, the weight which each floor will safely sustain upon each superficial foot thereof shall within 90 days after the passage of this act be estimated by a competent person employed by the owner or occupant.

"But if the inspector shall have cause to doubt the correctness of said estimate, he is empowered to revise and correct the same, and for the purpose of such revision he and the assistant inspectors may enter any building and remove so much of any floor or other portion thereof as may be required to make necessary measurements and examination.

"When the correct estimate of the weight the floors in any such building will safely sustain is ascertained as herein provided, the

inspector shall approve the same, and thereupon the owner or occupant of said building, or any portion thereof, shall Post a copy of said approved estimate in a conspicuous place on each story of the building to which it relates.



ARTS AND MANUFACTURES.

<article title=" ARTS AND MANUFACTURES " author="">

Tile classes in connection with the Council of Arts and Manufactures were opened a few weeks ago. The instruct ion is as in former years. A great number of pupils were enrolled. Mr. L. A. Boivin occupied the chair. The classes are held from 7.30 to 9.30 p.m., and are entirely free of charge. The greatest enthusiasm prevailed and everything points to a very successful season's work.



ST. JEAN BAPTISTE SOCIETY CLASSES.

<article title=" ST. JEAN BAPTISTE SOCIETY CLASSES " author="">

The course of public lectures delivered under the auspices of the St. Jean Baptiste Society are well attended. A large number of persons have attended these lectures, and those who have not should not fail to do so in the future. It is a good way to obtain knowledge in different branches of art and science. The lectures are entirely free, the sum of $2,500 being granted every year by the Quebec Government towards the -expenses. On the opening night Mr. Justice Loranger, who occupied the chair, explained that the object tile society had in view was to educate the laboring classes, and that the lectures were approved by the Council of Arts and Manufactures as well as by the Council of Public Instruction. In presenting the address of welcome to Premier Flynn, tile president made allusion to tile advantage it would be to have a museum of mineralogy, and asked the assistance of the Province for this object. Mr. Flynn, in replying, wished the society all tile success they deserve to achieve in their undertaking. The names of the different classes have already been given in tile Architect AND BUILDER, the only change being that Mr. Boivin, instructor in Applied Science, has tendered his resignation 011 account of illness, and has been replaced by Mr. E. Lafontaine.





PERSONAL.

Mr. F. W. Guernsey, C. E., of Stratford, was recently married to Miss Rose Sharp, of that city.

Mr. Edward C. Linden, a well-known contractor of Hamilton, Ont., died at the hospital in that city last month Deceased was 39 years of age.



Mrs. C. H. Wheeler, wife of the well-known architect of Winnipeg, died in that city on the 8th of October. Mr. Wheeler has the sympathy of many friends in his bereavement.

Mr. George Clapperton, superintendent of the Bennett & Wright Co., Toronto, was presented by the employees with a beautiful tea service, on the occasion of his recent marriage.



The friends of Mr. Alan Macdougall, C. E., will be pleased to learn that his health has been greatly benefitted by his recent stay in Great Britain, He expects to return to Toronto at the first of the new year. Mr. Macdougall was appointed to assist In making arrangements in Europe for the visit to Toronto next year of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.



Mr. Thomas Fuller, Chief Architect of the Public Works Department, Ottawa, was recently presented by the Governor-General with a souvenir, in the shape of a solid silver snuff box, the lid of which is a very finely executed bas relief of Christ blessing little children. The engraving on the lid is as follows: To Thomas Fuller, Esq., from H. E. the Earl of Aberdeen, as a small token of appreciation.



Sergt. Harp, who was one of the crack shots of this years Wimbledon team, is a well—known Toronto contractor. having been in business in that city for ten years past. He has lately returned from Great Britain, where he won upwards of $ 500 in prizes, and has determined to try his fortune in British Columbia, for which province he took his departure a fortnight ago. Sergt. Harp established for himself in Toronto an excellent reputation as a contractor, and will no doubt succeed in his new field of effort.



The news of the sad death of Mr. John Day, architect, of Gnelph, Out., which occurred on the 5th inst., was learned with much regret. It is supposed that he met death by his own hands. For some years he had been suffering severely from the effects of a fall he sustained while superintending the erection of the Commercial Hotel at Guelph, and at times was quite morose. Mr. Day was the youngest son of the late Wm. Day, builder, and had a thorough knowledge of his profession.

