<doctype type="text">



The A. I. A.



















<article title=" Water Flush and Diameters of Drains " author="">



Water Flush and Diameters of Drains.

to property owners and of health and life to the occupants of buildings erected by these classes. Consequently the pronouncement which has just been made by their association should receive proper consideration from the public and more particularly from the governing bodies.



THE American Institute of Architects will hold its thirteenth annual convention at Nashville, Tenn., on the 20th,

21st and 22nd inst. A discussion has been arranged for at this convention, on "The Influence of Iron and Steel Construction and of Plate Glass on the Development of Modern Style."





THE Northern Architectural Association in conjunction with officials of the Newcastle and Gateshead Water Company recently made a number of experiments for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of water required to properly flush a water closet and connecting drains. Also the diameter of drain necessary to insure proper cleansing. These experiments are said to have demonstrated the fact that with proper closets and fittings two gallons of water are sufficient for flushing purposes in dwellings, and that a four inch drain was more perfectly cleansed than a six inch one, notwithstanding that the former contained a more acute bend and was laid at a less steep gradient than the latter. In the principal cities of Canada the use of cast iron pipe for house drains has very properly been made compulsory, and in corroboration of the results of the above mentioned experiments, experience has shown that the most satisfactory results are secured by the use of four inch soil pipe in preference to pipe of larger diameter.





WHAT has become of the idea so prevalent among architects a few years ago, that the top of the house and not

the ground floor is the proper location for the kitchen? We recollect how convincingly a Hamilton architect talked on this subject two or three years ago, but we have yet to hear of an instance in which le has put his ideas in practice. The main argument in favor of changing the location of the kitchen in the manner suggested was, that the kitchen odours would find an immediate outlet into the atmosphere instead of being confined and diffused throughout the house. It is to our mind at least a matter of doubt whether the proposed change would secure this desirable result. We know of an office building in which the odor of the cooking from the caretaker's kitchen on the sixth floor at times assails the nostrils of the occupants on every floor, even to the basement. We should be pleased to receive from some of the advocates of the elevated kitchen an explanation regarding this conspicuous failure of their theory.



WE print in this number an account of the proceedings in connection with the recent annual convention of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. A perusal of the annual report of the Council shows that an earnest effort has been made during the year by the management of the Association to accomplish a number of very desirable objects. It is to be regretted that in

The Location of the Kitchen.

The P. Q. A. A. <article title=" The P. Q. A. A." author="">

some directions the results achieved have been small owing to failure to get a sufficiently large attendance of the members at the meetings. The enthusiasm which has prompted a few of the leading spirits to stand by the work of the Association in the face of these and other discouragements is highly commendable, and we trust will prove an inspiration to others to give more of their thought and time to the promotion of the Association's welfare. In spite of difficulties the Association has already accomplished a useful work, and has abundantly justified its existence. A much greater work lies before it in the future, and this also will be achieved if every member would feel his individual responsibility to give what assistance is in his power. The establishment of a chair of architecture in McGill University is doubtless in a measure an outcome of the efforts of the Association on behalf of the proper education of future generations of architects, and conversely the Association should derive assistance and support from this department of the university. The City Council of Montreal has shown itself to be alike deficient in gratitude and appreciation of what is due the interests of the citizens, by neglecting to take action upon the recommendations submitted by the Association for the improvement of the building by-laws of the city. A committee of the Association spent months of earnest effort for this object, and it will be a lasting disgrace to the Council if this effort is not recognized and proper consideration given to the recommendations which have been submitted. This statement equally applies to the City Council of Toronto, which is making no effort in the direction of approving or disapproving of the recommendations of the Ontario Association of Architects for the amendment of the city building ordinance. Such treatment is but a poor reward for disinterested efforts in behalf of the public welfare. In connection with the recent convention of the Quebec Association, we miss the papers and discussions on architectural subjects which have usually formed an interesting and instructive feature on similar occasions in the past. Considerable effort and self-sacrifice are certainly involved in the preparation of such papers, but a corresponding benefit is derived by those who hear and read them as well as by the authors themselves from the necessarily thorough study of their subjects. We therefore hope to see this valuable feature re-introduced in the annual conventions of the Association in the future. The Arts and Crafts Exhibition proved an extremely valuable adjunct to the convention, and is well calculated to give public prominence to the Association and its work. There was manifested at the convention a strong desire for the formation of a Dominion Association of Architects. Such an Association, if properly organized and supported should be able to promote in many ways the interests of architecture in the Dominion. In view, however, of the difficulty which is experienced in maintaining the interest of the members in the work of the Provincial Associations we are disposed to doubt the success of a larger organization, the members of which would be scattered from one end of the country to the other. The obvious difficulties in the path of such an organization should be fairly faced and considered before any definite action is taken. If the architects throughout the Dominion would express through, our columns their views on the subject, the probable success of the movement could be more easily estimated.

