<doctype type="text">	12	the Canadian	architect and 



was spent on a new city hail, and a considerable proportion of the balance on the Church of the Patronage. About 40 per cent., 35 per cent., and 15 per cent. respectively- will indicate the proportions of the total spent upon public, business, and residential properties. The material employed was about one-halfstone, and one-fourth each brick and wood. Brick has been about 20 per cent, lower in price, Stone and wood about the same. Bricklayers wages were about 50 cents per day less, joiners 20 cents less, and laborers about the same For the city hall Messrs. Tanguay & Vallee were the architects, and Messrs. Gingras, Gureherean, Kane & Picarcl, contractors. For the church, Mr. Berlington was the architect and Mr. Paul Breton contractor.

Other TOWNS.

<article title=" Other TOWNS " author="">

Other towns from which reports have reached us do not seem to have experienced much activity. Buildings have been erected in Gait to the value of about $30,000; Owen Sound, $20,000; Guclph, $120,000 ; Brantford, $15o,ooo; Woodstock, $100,000; Berlin, $1 17, ooo. In Guelph five miles of electric street railway and five miles of cement sidewalk (making a total of 12 miles) have been built, and Woodstock rejoices in a new market building. Operations in the towns consisted principally in the erection of dwellings, the condition of business not warranting much outlay for premises to be used for purposes of trade and commerce.

<article title=" MARITIME PROVINCES " author="">

MARITIME PROVINCES.

During the last eighteen or twenty years building operations have been very brisk in the principal parts of the lower particularly in the smaller towns and villages of Nova Scotia and new Brunswick these include buildings for various purposes, churches factories mills hotels colleges, schools, stores, post offices, public balls and dwellings the greater number, of course, being of the latter cia

Travelling through the provinces site cannot help wondering at the lack of taste displayed in the erection and locating of recently built dwelling Few indeed comparatively speaking, possess any of those pitting architectural features such as are seen on houses designed by skilful architects.

Occasionally an architect s services are called into requisition in designing a dwelling for tile country or smaller towns and if the owner gives him a chance at all to spread himself in his efforts to produce a good design, the result is usually satisfactory to the architect, client and all who chance to see the building.

Unfortunately, however, when people outside the cities contemplate tile erection of dwellings, tile usual course is to consult a carpenter, get his ideas and apply a few of their own, adopt some features from one neighbor's house and some front others, regardless of harmony and architecture. In some cases the patent medicine system is adopted and buildings are erected from plans found in some American publication. In these case the owner usually finds at the end that he has made a mistake and got an unsatisfactory house.

When an architect is employed the owner invariably iii makes tile amount to be expended so limited and requires so much h house for the amount, that there is little margin for ornamentation

Building is more expensive in the tower provinces than in Quebec or Ontario. Handsome brick and stone residences have been built in the latter provinces for less money than an or dinary France house of similar dimensions costs in the former. I his is tug to the lack of facilities in the shape of manufactories in the lower provinces, and to some extent to tile scarcity of good local woods for finish purposes, space being about tile only stock of any importance obtainable. Good pine is a thing of the past, anti birch, maple, oak and ash are not to be found in trees of sufficient size to make good finish stock.

many builders in the country towns ad some in Halifax, import their pine doors, mouldings and other finish, from Ontario factories.

In tile cities there is a lack of good general system among builders in carrying on their operations. They are slow to adopt new and improved methods to facilitate works. Still owners are inclined to stand by the old hands and very wary about letting work to outsiders.

Building in the lower provinces is done almost entirely by contract, the several trades being let to one party, who sublets all but his own trade, anti is responsible to the owner for the whole.

<article title=" ST. JOHN, N. B." author="">

ST. JOHN, N. B.

The number of building permits issued in St. John for the year was 82, being about one-third illume till in 1894 and the outlay on the sale $178,475. This does not include Carleton on the opposite side of the river, which is a separate municipality . including that suburb probably $250,000 has been expended Tile only buildings calling for special mention tin are a Baptist church cost, $18,000 H. H. Mott, architect, W. L. Prince and Robt. Maxwell, contractors; the Aberdeen Schoolhouse, cost, $20,000 R. Dunn, architect, B. Moony & Sons, contractors goody buildings, store and warehouse, $20,000, H. H Mott architect, Charles F. Tilley, contractor. Mr. G. Ernest Fair weather has built an addition to the Royal hotel and three saw mills have been rebuilt, and a corn mill. Other operations were principally in the way of two—storey wooden dwellings. Twelve buildings of brick and stone cost $93,050, and seventy of wood cost $85,425. Material and wages sooth at about the same figures as last year.



HALIFAX N S

The capital of Nova Scotia reports a considerable increase in tile total value of buildings erected, but a larger number of cheap dwellings, The details are, dwellings 97—brick 4, wood 93 business erections 5o—brick 6, wood 44; public buildings 3—brick  wood 2. The value of these structures is about $6oo,ooo. Tile most important building for which a permit has been granted is the drill sided, a brick and stone building estimated to cost $200,

000. Other buildings ailing for special mention are Deaf and Dumb Institute, $ 0000, brick J. C. Dcimartsq architect, S. A. Marshall, contractor Electric Railway Co., tai building, $25,000, brick, Rhodes, Curry & C 0 contractors I C R fi eight house, $30,ooo, brick, R. C. Doilild contractor; Peoples storey $15,000 brick, J. C. Duntari sq, architect, S. A. Marsh all contractor. Brick and iron have been slightly cheaper in pi ice other materials about the same. W ages have remained about as in 1894, except that the demand for carpenters is and laborers being great there was a slight advance New sewers, new streets and pipe laying for the new gas company have made a demand for labour, and next season a new drill hall and new gas works will keep up the record for building



WINNIPEG, MAN.

About $650,000 will represent the building done in Winnipeg the past season, $2oo,ooo of which was expended iii putting stone foundations under old buildings with tile necessary plumbing heating and drains. the speculative building which we condemned in last years review has been well eliminated and a remarkable degree of Caution exercised. This has resettled in keener competition among contractors, low hires and less profit. Building materials have been a slate tinder former prices, skilled labour has stood at the old prices but unskilled has been a little less. 'Three new school—houses have been built and Wesley college competition. A few good business blocks have been erected, and a considerable number of houses, but not so many as the previous year. The Dufferin school house cost $26,-000 and the Argyle $25,ooo. Mr. C. II. Wheeler was architect of both. The school-liouse represents $23,000. Mr. Geo. Browne was architect. The expenditure Oil Wesley College was $35,ooo. Peters and Brown were its architects. Mr. Wheeler also supervised the erection of tile Campbell block on Main street, cost $17,ooo, and a fine red brick and stone house for Mr. Hugh Joplin Macdonald, costing $i i,ooo. Mr. Brown was the architect of a Masonic Temple costing $16,ooo. Mr. H. McEwen bath the Christie block in charge, costing $ i 7,000. Mr. lieters pained Ashdown

 warehouse, costing $40,ooo, and Mr. Griffith a ware— house for Mr. Ryan costing $1o,ooo. Wood is still the lireclonlinating material in the city and nearly all the dwellings are built of hat material, on stone foundations 

'Flit' outlook for tile coming season is uncertain. Though there has been an immense crop in Manitoba, prices are low, and there is not much encouragement to launch out into enterprises involving considerable expenditures.

OTHER NORTH west TOWNS.

At Brandon tile season's building represents some $20,000 ; at Minnedosa $32,000 ; at Carberry $22,000, and at south Edmonton a four year old town, $75,000. The most important building at the latter is an oatmeal mill of Brackman & Ker.

Vancouver B. C.



This has been an exceedingly dull year in British Columbia, except perhaps in some of the mining centres, and in common with the rest of tile country the cities have not progressed to any marked degree. Building operations have been backward and there has been a great scarcity of employment Vancouver, the most progressive city of the province can show new buildings to the amount of $ioo,ooo, and these are chiefly small cheap dwellings of a speculative class. Ally business structures are of most similar class, and tile only public building reported is a small wooden school house. Both materials auto wages are down in



prince and the trade is much the pressed. There are too many men to do the work required. the only building of any account in prospect is a large hotel for Messrs. Creail & Thomas, of which Mr. Wm. Blackmore is tile architect.

NEW Westminster.



What has been said of Vancouver is also true of New Westminster. Only two buildings of any consequence have been erected, 'a thrill hall of wood costing about $7,ooo, anti additions on the provincial luilatic asylum, principally for a doctor's residence, costing $6,ooo.

Victoria, B.C.



In Victoria, though operations on business and residential properties have been restricted as in other British Columbia towns, a large sum has been expended on government buildings. Work has been pushed forward tin tile new parliament and departmental buildings, which when completed, will represent an expenditure of not far from a million dollars. They are of handsome architectural design and will be a credit to this young province. Lit fact they are quite beyond present requirements, but the government has faith iii the future, and has built with an eye to a large increase in public business iii the time to come. Tile work was executed from the plans of Mr. F. M. Rattenbury The contractors were nelsons, McGregor & Jeeves ; joiners, Bisilop & Siterborne ; plasterer, R. Du'ake ; iron work, Albion Iroit Works coppersmiths, Herry & Turner ; plumber, K. J. Nott ; heating, bennett & Wright Co. ; Painter, E. Spillman

The new post office which is aist under way will when completed be a handsome building. It is being erected tinder the superintendence of tile government architect, and will cost about $175,ooo. Tile contractors are Messrs. Elfortl & Smith. These two works have given employment to a charge force of men who would otherwise have found it difficult to obtain work. Besides the public buildings mentioned above, about fifty small houses have been erected Considerable alterations to existing buildings have also been made Wood and stone have been used to the greatest extent, and the price of materials has been about 10 per cent. below the previous year

In other British Columbia towns there has been great stagnation, any buildings erected having been of the cheaper class.

