<doctype type="text">



REMINISCENCES OF THE ARCHITECTURE OF SICILY.

13v A. C. HUTCHISON R. C. A.

<article title=" REMINISCENCES OF THE ARCHITECTURE OF SICILY " author="Hutchison, A. C.">

the growing towers like exhalations rise,

And the huge columns heave into the skies.

—Pope.



the Island of

Sicily, so rich in its historical

 association and

its historical

lfl examples of the architecture of the different

people that from time to time have been its rulers, from five or six centuries B. C. down to the present day, was visited in the month of February last, but in so hurried a manner as to only afford time to glance at building-s with whose history former study had made me

somewhat familiar. Seeing many of these buildings, though but the skeleton of their former glory, was like renewing old acquaintances, and only served to whet the appetite and induce longing for an opportunity for more minute examination and leisurely study.

This island, which has had such a varied and chequered career during the 2,500 years with which history makes us acquaint, and has served under many and varied masters, some of whom, highly advanced in art, have left us monuments which, though now shorn of their original beauty, bear mute testimony to the status in art, skill in construction, and power of the people who erected them.

The imprint of the art of the different nations and people who from time to time have held sway on the island, and whose nationalities and art instincts were so widely different, being thus brought together within

study a

small geographical limits, enables one to	great variety of styles, and the influence which in sonic cases



one had on the other, without having to travel very far. So many of the more important buildings of this

island have been minutely described and illustrated in works which are in the hands of many of your readers, that it would he useless to attempt any detailed description in a short article. I will, therefore, only briefly describe the representative buildings of the different styles, and the impressions produced on coming in contact for the first time with the art of the Orient and Occident, where they met on this classic island.

Naturally Greek architecture will first claim attention, and if along with the examples of this art to be found in Sicily, we include those at Paestum in southern Italy, we find a group of buildings that for size and skill in construction, rival those of Greece itself, and for beauty of design are only surpassed by those of Athens. Greek architecture in Sicily and Italy, as in Greece, is illustrated in temples, while the constructive and engineering skill of the Greeks is shown in city walls, forts, and aqueducts, which remain to the present day. The principal groups of temples in the island are to be found at Selinunto, Segesta and Girgenti, and if we include with them the temples at Paestum, we have in all fourteen buildings illustrative of this architecture. Some of these buildings remain nearly entire, while others are in

utter ruins and can only be judged by the remains of the columns, capitals and entablatures, which lie round the site of the temple of which they were a part. Syracuse, in the south east of the island, the largest and most powerful of the Greek cities, no doubt contained many temples commensurate with its wealth and importance, but so utter has been its destruction that, with the exception of a few columns of a temple incorporated in the cathedral of the modern city, and a few fragments near the seashore, nothing remains of its temple architecture.

The erection of the temples in Sicily, of which we have remains, dates from about 6oo to 400 B. C., thus covering the best period of Hellenic art. Portions of the entablatures, with the sculptured metopes of several of the temples at Selinunto, were removed some years ago to the museum in Palermo, where they are now set up in a large hall. The sculptures on these metopes cover a period of about 200 years, and as the latest in date is about the time when Hellenic sculpture had attained to nearly its greatest excellence, we can in the study of them trace the development of sculpture from early beginnings to its highest development. The largest of the Sicilian temples is one at Selinunto and if I am not mistaken the largest of all Greek temples. It measures about 370 feet long by 175 feet wide. The temple of Zeus at Girgenti only lacks a few feet of the same dimensions. The intercolumniations of the latter temple were so great that no single stone could be found of sufficient size to form the architrave. To overcome this difficulty, the columns on the sides of the building, instead of being detached, were attached to a wall from which they projected a little over half their diameter. The wall to which they were attached was carried up to the top of the capitals and formed a support for the architrave, which in each intercolumniation was composed of several pieces and overhung the wall about half a diameter. In the end or joint of each stone of the architrave is a square sinking three or four inches wide and deep, made in the form of the letter U ; these were probably used for placing the rope or sling in, with which the stones were hoisted to their position, the form and size of the recess allowing for the rope being withdrawn when the stone was set. The stone used in the Sicilian temples is coarse grained and incapable of being worked to a smooth surface. They appear to have been covered with a thin coating of stucco, which was probably painted. The ashlar forming the walls of the cells of some of the temples at Girgenti is so closely jointed that the point of a pen knife can not be inserted in the joint, and the stones appear to have been set without mortar or cement.

The temples at Selinunto and Paestum, standing, as they do, all alone in a solitary plain far removed from habitation or life, present a picture of desolation that is difficult to describe; while the four temples at Girgenti, though placed in the midst of more pleasing surroundings, being situate in line on the crest of a ridge along which once stood the massive city walls, and now surrounded by olive groves, stand solitary reminders of departed greatness.

Besides the temples which tell the story of the art of the Sicilian Greeks, there are remains of city walls, forts, quarries, etc., at different places on the island, which is evidence of their skill in engineering. The most extensive remains of this character are to be found at Syracuse, the most important of the cities of Magna

