	THE CANADAIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	V.



PLAN SHOWING THE HEATING APPARATUS



OF_GOVERNMENT HOUSE, OTTAWA ONT..



























HOT WATER HEATING APPARATUS AT GOVERNMENT



HOUSE, OTTAWA.





T

 Governor General's residence at Ottawa is situated near the confluence of the Rideau and Ottawa rivers. Up to last autumn the heating apparatus consisted of eight hot air furnaces, one hot water Beehive furnace which supplied 840 feet lineal of inch pipe in coils, and twenty four stoves, requiring the distribution of fuel to, and removal of ashes from many points. The hot water heating apparatus illustrated by the accompanying plans was constructed last autumn, to replace the said stoves and furnaces.

There are four "BUFFALO" Hot Water Heaters, manufactured by H. R. IVES & CO., Montreal, and the heating surface is direct throughout the apparatus. The flow and return mains are carried overhead along the basement corridors—the flow Pipes only being shown on plans as the return pipes are similar in size and position. The ground floor mains, excepting in the kitchen wing, are separate from those of the upper floor. The mains running the long axis of the basement would probably be as well as if in one pair, instead of two, as at present, but with the branches as they are.

The heating surface is entirely direct, and is in large part cast iron radiators, which were in most instances found more suitable owing to the furniture interrupting the continuity of the wall surface.

The house was originally a villa purchased by the Government and added to from time to time, giving rise to a

straggling plan, necessitating unusual arrangements of





The front hall floor is a few feet above that of the furnace room, whi1e the floor of the tennis court basement is lower than the furnace room floor. The tennis court basement is divided into bedrooms heated by five large box coils placed on the floor and circulating evenly and well, although the return main is fifteen inches lower where it connects with than its delivery into furnace.

Although the winter was exceptionally severe, and the

situation of the house very exposed, the water returned

at 130 F. in the most trying weather.

The plans and specifications were prepared and the works carried out under the direction of Mr. Thos. Fuller, chief Architect of the Department of Public Works, Ottawa, by Mr. David Ouimet, steamfitter, Montreal,

P.	Q.









<doctype type="ad">

















GOVERNMENT house, OTTAWA, May 9, 1895.



DEAR sir The Governor General desires me to say that he has much pleasure in informing you that the boilers and connected heating apparatus which you recently erected in the Government House have given much satisfaction. His Excellency has personally taken much interest in the working of the arrangement, and has watched it with attention. He can therefore the more confidently offer his testimony.

	I remain, yours faithfully,	W T. G. Hewlett

H.	R. IVES, Queen Street, Montreal.