<doctype type="text">



ally designated. Most certainly when it comes down to buying, correspondence must be resorted to. By the way, let me add that another benefit of the library of technical journals is that they tell in their advertising pages the names and addresses of the principal dealers in each line ; this fact alone is worth the subscription price to any contractor.

In regard to extra work a little advice might not be out of place. When a proprietor or his agent, who is as a rule the architect, suggests changes, additions or deductions, at once look up the specifications and see exactly how the matter stands and do not make such deviation from the amount or class of work contracted for until you have first amicably adjusted with the proprietor the price that is to be added to or dedicated from the contract amount then you will know how you stand and the proprietor will know how he stands, and there will be saved all the untold squabbles and dissatisfactions over the extras at the final settlement.

A contractor has duties to his employer as well as to himself this he should always bear in mind. The better he can satisfy his employer the better it will be for his reputation now and to come;

one	the good that ten

dissatisfied d proprietor will by far outdo

satisfied ones an do him, and he will usually try to do it, too. When I advise trying your level best to satisfy the proprietor, I do not say to exceed the specifications, for that is uncalled for but success can only be obtained by conscientiously filling them to the last letter

The relation a new beginner bears to those previously established in his line in the same locality is at first on the part of the old heads often one of suspicion. This is human nature. To speculate on his qualifications, his resources, his everything, is only natural in those to whom be is now to be a rival. Barriers may be thrown in his way——but what of this, fair, square dealing will outlive all. Keep a stiff upper lip ; be honest by all and fear

none.	itp to will give to

This procedure if conscientiously lived

any man a certain noble personality, a certain impress of absolute reliability that all the storms of adversity or cannot shake, that will stamp that man as a man among uteri, and success is assured.



<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE AT LONDON, ONT. -- HER BERT Matthews,



ARCHITECT.



cathedral CHURCH OF WELLS, SOMERsETSHIRE, EN(;LAND,



FROM A Drawing BY MR. ERNEST WILBY.



Wells Cathedral, 1148-1407, is one of the most interesting of English Cathedrals, and will merit a visit by the travelling architect or student. The view presented shows the easterly end as seen from the Bishop's garden.



MARKET Building AT WINNIPEG, MAN. - GEORGE BROWNE



ARCHITECT.



The building is built of stone and local buff brick. The exterior walls above ground line are hollow, pointed and painted on the interior side no plaster. The roof over centre portion has a clear span without the beams or rods; cost $24,000



"C. A. & B." COMPETITION FOR A JEWELRY STORE DESIGN sUI3MITTED BY ''ROMANESQUE —AWARDED FIRST POSITION.



The whole of the front of the first storey, the columns, sills and lintels of first second, third and fourth floors, the arches, spandrels and string course above third floor windows, the paneling tinder cornice and the large brackets at ends of cornice to be of the best quality of Cleveland blue stone. The rest of the front wall, excepting cornice, to be faced with the best selected buff bricks of an even tone and backed with good ordinary brickwork.



C. A.	& B." COMPETITION FOR A RETAIL JEWELRY STORE.



DESIGN SUBMITTED BY '' PENNY "  AWARDED



SECOND POSITION.



Foundations are to be built of hard gray or sewer brick on footings of stone. All walls except the front are to be of good white brick. The front above the ground floor is to be built of l)on Valley buff pressed brick. The ground front is to be of Berea stone, as also are all sills, capping, strings, cornices, pillars, and panels. All the partitions above the ground floor are to be 41/2 porous terra cotta.



THE JAMIESON BUILDING, TORONTO.----CURRY, BAKER &



CO., ARCHITECTS.



As the land upon which this building is erected is possibly the most valuable in the city of Toronto, it was absolutely necessary to make the most of the site. Every inch of frontage on Yonge street has a value of $200.00, and it was consequently imperative that none of it should be wasted. The glass line of the store windows is within 3> inches of the face line of building with the supporting columns inside of same. The result

has been satisfactory, for although the ground floor of the building is almost all glass it has not the appearance of standing upon spars, which is characteristic of many buildings with large plate glass surfaces. There IS an entrance from Yonge street and one from Queen street, the balance of the frontage being devoted to showing goods, thus forming a large and continuous store window extending from entrance to entrance. Along the inside walls there are two galleries about 13 feet wide, through which the elevator and staircase are carried. The gallery at the west end will be used for office, that on the north side For showing goods. The available space on the store floor is very largely increased by means of the galleries. The basement will be used for selling goods, and is exceedingly well lighted. Much thought was devoted to the lighting of the basement, and the result is most satisfactory. Three of the upper floors will be devoted to the sale of goods, while the top floor will be used for manufacturing purposes. The upper floor is lighted by three very large skylights. The floors throughout are carried on steel beams supported by cast iron columns.

The building is not fireproofed, but every care has been taken to prevent the spread of fire. There is no strapping upon any of the walls, and the ceilings are plastered upon metal lath. A stand pipe is run up through the building to the roof with hose on every floor. Ohio free stone is used in the ground storey, including the corner, and stone and brick in the first storey. The balance is built with a very light buff pressed brick with terra cotta arches. The cornice is of galvanized iron painted to harmonize with the brick.

<article title=" STOKOSAY CASTLE " author="Swales, Edward">

STOKOSAY CASTLE.



The view given in this number of this interesting old mansion shows the North Tower from the church—yard looking across the moat. On the left is seen the Tudor

black and white gatehouse, of which a drawing with details and a general description was published in this paper last March. At the northern end of the great hall a short flight of steps leads downwards into an apartment which is probably the most ancient part of the buildings the very narrow loop holes show that it was intended for defence. In a projection of this chamber is a well, 150 ft. deep, which was nearly filled tip, but has recently been cleaned out. A boar and deer skull and a pair of roebuck's horns only were found. An original staircase of solid oak bulks, out through diagonally, leads from the hall to the first and top floors. On the first floor are two apartments which are named the priest's rooms. The innermost room, probably used as an oratory, is laid with a number of tiles of good design, several the device of a centaur, an archer and coats of arms. A projection in the angle contains a small recess. Little change has taken place except the insertion of an ogee window, which will be noticed on the drawing.

The upper room is of very irregular shape a well lighted apartment 25 ft. x 30 ft. This half timber structure was probably put on at the same time that the gatehouse was erected, and replaced the original parapets of the tower. This room has probably been divided by light partitions. There is a fine example of an early English fireplace, with side pillars, down which runs a rib. A wooden frame resting on corbels which once supported awooden hood still remain. Though the tipper part is gone, the line is defined by the groove in the wall.

The floor of this room partly rests on brackets projecting from the walls, and is thus of greater size than the lower structure.

The roof principals are very irregular. The ridge is on the twist and anything but level, but they got over these slight difficulties by giving gentle sweeps to the tiling. The basement walls are very thick, and it will be seen they have considerable batter.

The great hall is lighted by three large windows on either side filled with early English tracers', grooved for shutters, and in the lower divisions holes stink in the stone to admit iron bars. The far gable seen in the sketch is the solar with the battlements of the south tower above.

This is not the general view, which, together with measured drawings, I hope to give at a future date and with a fuller description. EDWARD SWALES.

