<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER	3



Trade building- on St. Sacrament street, which seems to have had the effect of torching our architects to study the architecture of our neighbors in order to meet the popular demand and craze of the day for Americanism.

Much difference of opinion will exist as to whether Montreal should he blamed or praised for its frequent change of styles, but it will be agreed that it is not SO much the question of style we should advocate as that we should strive to obtain in whatever style we choose the highest possible excellence by studying the same thoroughly and intelligently.

Where architecture in Montreal has retrograded has been in the erection, during the last ten or twelve years, of dwelling houses on a grand scale by speculators, from the plans of an inferior class of architects, or more often still from the plans of builders. This class of building far outnumber the better class, which accounts for the distorted perspective one meets with in the streets of some localities.

A few illustrations are here given of some of the best buildings of recent erection, for photographs of which we are indebted to Mr. Cajetan Dufort, architect, of Montreal. Fig. represents the residence of H. Vin



























































BRANCH BANK OF MONTREAL MONTREAL.





Westmount, formerly called Cote St. Antoine, is the locality for excellence where we will find in large numbers examples of American domestic architecture, which, it cannot be denied, is especially fitted for this country.

BANK OF TORONTO, MONTREAL.





cent Meredith, at the corner of Pine avenue and Peel street, Mr. Edward Maxwell, architect, the work of which is finely executed. The walls are built in fine pressed brick, red in color and relieved with sand stone trimmings. Fig. 2 represents two stores with dwellings above, on St. Catherine street, near Mansfield street, Messrs. Cox & Amos, architects, built in sand stone of two different colors. Fig-. 3 is the Merchants' Bank of Halifax at the corner of Notre Dame and Seigneurs streets, Mr. Edward Maxwell, architect, the ground floor of which is in olive green sandstone and the remainder in buff pressed brick. Fig. 4 is the branch of the Bank of Montreal, situated on the opposite corner from the last named building, entirely built of red sandstone. Fig. 5 represents the new building of the Bank of Toronto, at the corner of St. James and McGill streets. Mr. A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., is the architect of these structures.

