<doctype type="text">

<article title=" CONVENTION OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

CONVENTION OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

THE annual convention, which will this year be held on Jan. 12th and 13th, will devote itself more than hitherto to artistic criticism in the form of free discussion of representations of executed work thrown on the wall by means of a stereopticon. Besides the usual display of members' work by this means, it is proposed to discuss the best examples of old work in Toronto and there is talk of substituting for the paper that has always hitherto been given by some member of the staff of the School of Practical Science, a similar display of examples of some one style, selected from the admirable photos taken in England by Mr. Jos. Keele for the School collection of architectural photographs, and accompanying the exhibition by comment and discussion. There will also be two papers, one from Professor Capper of McGill University, of which the title has not been received, and one from Mr. D. B. Dick, on the '' Possibility of a New Style." The programme seems to have a practical tendency all through, and will probably bring out further the more sociable manner of carrying on discussions that was noticeable at the last convention.

<article title=" THE DUTY ON ARCHITECTS' MATERIALS " author="">

THE DUTY ON ARCHITECTS' MATERIALS.

A DEPUTATION representing the Ontario Association of Architects, interviewed the Tariff Commissioners on the occasion of their last visit to Toronto, with the object of endeavoring to secure a reduction in the duties on materials used by architects.

The following letter, expressive of the views of the Association, and accompanying memorandum, placed in the hands of the Commissioners by Mr. Lang-ton, the Registrar

The accompanying statement of the duty imposed upon materials used by architects states also to what extent these materials are manufactured in Canada, and shows that, although there are two of the articles made in Canada, I: is only imported articles of that kind that are used by architects. So that it is true to say that upon all the drawing materials used by architects there is a duty of from 25 to 35, and that none of these articles are manufactured in Canada.

The duty, therefore, is of no use except as a contribution to revenue and while regarded as a contribution to revenue, the result must he small, because the architectural profession comprises but a small body of men, to each architect the addition to his office expenses caused by these duties is of considerable importance.

"Nor is this a case where the tax levied on one body of men can be transmitted to others in the way of charges. An architect's fee is fixed by custom as a commission on the cost of the building erected his own expenses do not enter into the calculation, and though they are greater under this tariff than before, there is no customary method of adjusting his charges to this increase.

STATEMENT CONCERNING ARCHITECTS MATERIALS. <article title=" STATEMENT CONCERNING ARCHITECTS MATERIALS " author="">

Tracing linen	Duty 27 1/217050t made in Canada

Prepared tracing paper " 35 —

Black print	paper...."	35	—The composition a chemical secret known only

			  to two persons in the U. S., and made by them.

Blue print paper....	"		—A little of this made in Canada, but the duty

			  does not protect its manufacture, because the

			  drawing paper which forms its base must be

imported from the U. S. under duty. to the U. S. both the paper and process are native, and the manufacturers are stile to keep the Canadian market.

Whitedrawing paper.	"		—Not made in Canada.

White tracing paper...	"	25	

Manilla paper	"	25	'—A little made in Canada. hut not of a quality

			  suitable future use. What we use is imported I.

Inks

Colors	"	25	Not made in Canada.

t instruments 3





A writer in an exchange warns painters not to mix chrome yellow with Prussian blue to produce a bright green. Either substitute ultramarine Cot' the Prussian blue, or yellow ochre or raw sienna for the chrome yellow.

POINTS ON VENTILATION. <article title=" POINTS ON VENTILATION " author="">

SINCE a man inhales on an average 16 ft. to 18 ft. of air in an hour, and the air he exhales contains 180 times as much carbonic acid as fresh air, it will require t 20 times as much fresh air to dilute it sufficiently in order to render it suitable for respiration. Each individual will require, therefore, about 2,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour.

In practice it is generally found that a larger quantity is desirable, and this is usually stated at 3,000 cubic feet. Since the air of a room, it may be said, is not changed more than three or four times an hour, it is desirable that, if each individual is to be provided with 3,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour, he should have an air-space of from 750 to 1,000 cubic feet.

It. has been found that where a current of air enters a room at a greater rate than 2 ft. per second, a draught is caused. The art of ventilation, therefore, may be described as the art of supplying a public building or dwelling with air at this rate, and in quantities sufficient to prevent the possibility' of the carbonic acid from increasing beyond the limits of purity.



BRICKS MADE FROM SAND. <article title=" BRICKS MADE FROM SAND " author="">

AN organization has been incorporated in San Francisco, California, which proposes to expend $50,000 in the purchase of a site and the erection of buildings for the manufacture of bricks from sand. The stone brick which it is proposed to make will be manufactured from powdered stone or the elements contained in stone, such as sand, clay, etc. These substances are mixed with a prepared 'flux," which acts as a bond, holding together the particles of sand or other material used as a filler, the whole being thoroughly annealed by heating.

Among the advantages claimed for the brick is the saving of time, only ten hours being needed for their manufacture, instead of eight to thirty' days ; a much less consumption of fuel ; scarcely' any loss from burning; a crushing strength from 10,000 to 40,000 lbs. to the square inch instead of from 400 to 4,000 lbs., and a reduction of costto three-fifths of that of the old stylebricks.



TESTING QUICKSAND.

SUPPOSE we take a certain quantity of quicksand, dry' it artificially, and then try to make it into quicksand again. Put it into a box and pour water on it carefully. Instantly' the water is soaked up, and if we measure the volume or better, the weight of the sand, we shall see that it takes up a quantity of water that measures 30 per cent. of its own volume, Of 20 per cent. by'



weight. The rest stays above the layer of sand. If we now pierce a little hole in the bottom of the box, we shall see pure water run out ; the sand forms a kind of immovable filter. Also by turning the box upside down to see the sand keep its form like a stopper. It follows from this experiment that we cannot obtain quicksand in this way'. We must reverse the condition of the experiment. Let us put the water into a vessel and sift in the dry sand in a thin stream, while shaking the vessel lightly. Then we shall get the thick but easily flowing compound known as quicksand. That the mixture may' keep its mobility', two conditions are necessary:

(1)	The quantity' of water must not be less than 2t per cent. by' weight. (2) The whole must be continually though lightly' shaken. If we increase the proportion or interrupt the agitation for an instant, the mass settles down, retaining about 20 per cent. of water, while the surplus, if it exists, rises to the top. —La Nature.

