<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	179



"ARCHITECTURE IN THE UNIVERSITY."

UNDER the above title Prof. Capper, occupant of the recently established chair of Architecture, delivered on the 5th inst., the annual University Lecture to the students of McGill University, Montreal, as follows

<article title=" ARCHITECTURE IN THE UNIVERSITY " author="Capper">

Architecture is a subject which, in the older universities of Europe, as distinguished from mere technical schools, has hitherto received but scanty recognition. At Oxford and Cambridge it has been represented but fitfully. The name of Prof. Willis, of Cambridge, will recur to many at Oxford also that of the Slade Professor of Art, John Ruskin. Both must ever be mentioned with honor. But the recognition of the subject has been solely on its theoretic and historical sides, that is, from the aesthetic and archaeological standpoints. In no Scottish University is there a Chair of Architecture l)roper, though Edinburgh possesses a Professor of Fine Art, and Glasgow, by a curious antithesis, is endowed with a Chair of Naval Architecture. The more modern teaching bodies in England, King's College and University College, London, and in Liverpool—quite recently added to the list—the University College of the Victoria University, have all Chairs of Architect tire, both Theoretical and Practical. In France there are many local technical schools, and in the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris we have a great central school devoted to Architecture and its sister arts—rather would I venture to say its handmaid arts of Sculpture and Painting. But it is a so-called special school it forms no part of the famous University of Paris.; nor, so far as I know, is Architecture a university subject in Germany, Austria, Italy or Spain. In all these countries there are great technical and special schools, more or less on the model of Paris.

On this side of the Atlantic, on the other hand, in the United States, not only are there great technical schools, such as Massachusetts College of Technology at Boston, but we have a very frank University recognition of Architecture at Cornell, at Harvard also, at the University of Pennsylvania, and, above all, at Columbia College, New York.

In Canada we have at Toronto, forming part of the University, the School of Practical Science, in which Architecture is included.

To the list of those that embrace Architecture in their curricula, McGill University must now be added. The Chair has here been attached to tire Faculty of Applied Science, which hitherto, with the exception of Practical Chemistry, has been wholly devoted to Engineering in its various branches. That there are peculiar advantages in this arrangement, I shall, I trust, have little difficulty in showing. I congratulate myself t hat Architecture is thus closely combined with Engineering, for, after all, of course engineering is for the most part but very specialized architecture, though too often, it may be maintained, its somewhat unnatural offspring. And I venture too, by way of suggestion, to congratulate my engineering colleagues themselves, for, on the Scriptural principle that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump,'' I cannot but hope that ere long through them the salutary influence of Architecture may be felt, and may insensibly raise those engineering ideals, which, at present, with all their boasted scientific advance, have succeeded—can any one deny it?

-in afflicting the world with some of the most gigantic monuments of ugliness that as yet man has ever achieved. (Laughter and applause.)

Tire peculiar dangers against which Faculties of Applied Science have to contend—and as such I unhesitatingly class the great Faculties of Medicine, of Law, and even of Theology itself

——are that the true University standard of education for the whole man be lost sight of in the eager struggle arid restless activity which characterize our modern conditions of society. In the struggle—I had almost said the soufflé—of existence, the student is naturally eager to equip himself with the utmost despatch for his work in life, that is, to shorten his probation, if by any means he may start the sooner in life's race. He is apt to view with impatience all subjects that lie outside his immediate path, and to devote himself exclusively to those by mastering which he may the more quickly gain his own livelihood and feel that he is advancing apace. Such Brodstudien as the Germans call them, the studies whose object is the mastery of the craft by which the student is to live, are specially technical, arid form the basis of the technical schools, most admirable institutions, doing admirable work for the land, but still riot universities. To grasp the distinction between the technical school and the university is of importance. Speaking generally, the essential difference

between the two consists, it seems to me, in this: the technical school is equipped exclusively for and aims solely at imparting the knowledge that is requisite for a man's stock-in-trade, so to speak, as a handicraftsman iii the labor of life. It does not seek to do more than fit the student for conducting on approved lines and with success the business of life—whether commercial, or manufacturing or professional. But the university aims at a higher standard of equipment and of life. Its ideal is more than a livelihood made, however successful. Its ideal is the man, quickened and developed in all the resources of his intellectual and moral being, with the avenues of knowledge opened out to him arid harmoniously correlated, even though it is possible for the individual to take but one or other of these avenues for his own special walk in life. A University, if subdivided into Faculties, is yet more than any Faculty or group of Faculties it is more than all the Faculties combined for it is the co-ordination of them all into one harmonious whole, evenly balanced and justly interwoven to make up the great, the inexhaustible, sum of human knowledge and human activity, both intellectual and moral. It is said that universities are unpractical ; that they do not fit a man for the practical business of life. It seems to rue, on the contrary, that the university of to—day, properly equipped arid working with modern methods on many lines, enriched by the inclusion in its curricula of all those subjects which modern life embraces and demands, is the only practical training ground for life in its fullest and noblest sense. To be educated is not to be unpractical, arid with the vast increase of knowledge inn almost innumerable branches that has crowded the intellectual  of modern times with rich stores undreamt of in by gone days, education is but piecemeal and stunted arid one—sided that does not in the fullest measure seek to develop harmoniously the man in Iris entire life arid being, that does riot strive to widen the horizon of his knowledge, of his intelligence and of Iris sympathies, and that rests satisfied with an equipment, in itself it may be thorough, that is limited to the immediate needs of his own necessarily narrow calling. (Cheers).

Has Architecture then a right to a place in the university curriculum ? Can it vindicate its claim to the higher recognition implied by its admission amongst the subjects of university teaching ? Not only do I fearlessly claim for it that right, but I maintain that its inclusion in Applied Science is the surest way of maintaining unimpaired that true university standard of which I have spoken in the Faculty which is liable perhaps more than any other to be assimilated to the mere technical school. It is not the ideal of this Faculty—as has been scornfully or enviously suggested—to flood with the greatest possible number of the best drilled men the engineering profession in this country. The ideal of a Faculty of Applied Science in a great university is certainly to place at the disposal of those men whose bent is toward its particular subjects tire highest training that modern science has to offer in those subjects, but at the same time to imbue them, as far as possible, with the broad catholicity of the university spirit, to widen their horizon with the university recognition of the unity of learning arid the co—relationship of knowledge, in a word, to educate to the fullest the man as well as to train the chemist, or the architect, or the engineer. (Applatise.) Arid for such an ideal Architecture, I venture to affirm, with all deference to my colleagues, is of greater import than engineering. For what is Architecture ? and what is its relationship to Engineering and the Arts ? What, too, ins relationship to the other Faculties? What has Architect tire iii common with the studies that constitute their curricula ? Architecture is the science arid art of building well. It is at once the most artistic of the sciences arid the most scientific of the arts. It has been said—and no less a man than Mr. Ruskin has lent his great authority to the delusion hat the function of architecture is to ornament, that architecture is concerned with applying to a building ornament and features that in themselves are useless No more monstrous fallacy was ever preached or swallowed wholesale by gullible humanity Architecture is no such meretricious afterthought like the wooden Done portico outside, which does duty for the Faculty of Arts. If it were so, the columns of the Parthenon would be hardly more respectable as art than the scalps with which the average Indian may have adorned his wigwam Yet it is amazing how this inane idea has laid hold of men who should know better. It has met me already within tire precincts of McGill (laughter); it has been held forth to me, in all seriousness, within the Applied Science building itself. (Renewed laughter).

Six thousand years ago—or more, it may be—on the edge of the desert, 150 feet above the Nile there was raised the "most

