<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	157



freely from stall to stall, or box to box, throughout the length of the stable. The section of the sill is such that here are no corners in which dust can accumulate, and it can readily be s wept or washed clean by a broom, and there are no projections or corners against which a horse can injure himself.

We have given the areas of inlets and outlets for what we consider sufficient ventilation for the winter, but this must be supplemented in summer, as already mentioned, by windows. There is no doubt that a stable, to be healthy, should also be light, and where possible overhead skylights should be given ; but in the majority' of cases this is impossible, and we should then advocate glazed hopper or swing windows above each stall or loose box, and where there is only one row of stalls or boxes, ordinary sliding windows on the gang-way side opening top and bottom with their sills not less than 5 feet above the floor.

The actual area of windows required varies, according to different authors, from to 10 square feet for each cubic feet of space. It may therefore be assumed that it should not be less than fifteen square feet for each horse, more being given according as the lights obstructed by other buildings, etc., in close proximity.

This article has now extended to such a length that we have small space for any remarks on warming. It must therefore suffice to say that square feet of hot water pipe heating surface per 1,000 cubic feet of space, or 7 1/2 square feet per horse, should be sufficient ; and hot water coils should if possible be placed in the space beneath a window and so protected that there may be no projections against which a horse could injure himself when passing.

<article title=" MARBLE IN INTERIOR WORK " author="">

MARBLE IN INTERIOR WORK.*

Now, when we come to interior work, a new field is open to its. We are not hound by influences such as those hat have been under our consideration. What we have to consider primarily is strength of material for its purpose secondly, its adaptability thirdly, and generally to the client the most important, its appearance when finished. With all due respect to your president's opinions I, if followed my own in clinations, should give marble the premier place as an internal material. Doubtless a number would say that marble is out of the question for general purposes, its cost us so great but marble does not itself ask for treatment such as you give to stone. Work executed in marble can and should be finished so as tot 10 have any appearance of grimness or even of' dinginess.

Marble should not he looked upon as a constructional, but rather as a decorative material and, looking at its use from a monetary point of view, I would quote Mr. W. Brindley's paper before the Royal Institute of British Architects some two or three years hack, where he tell us that at St. Sophia 2,000 feet super of delightful decoration of a durable character was cut out of a single block of Cipollina marble, the whole oputted out and making a continuous pattern. The small slab we have here is of the santé material, and is a scale pattern of the pavement in St. Mark's, Venice. Then, again, to adapt marble to concave or convert surfaces, I would ask you to visit the church lately erected by Dr. Freshheld at Lower Kingswood. You will find that we have followed out the scheme of the Byzantines, viz., forming the convex face of the apse with a series of narrow slabs opened out chevron fashion, thus producing a curtain—like appearance, which has a very pleasing effect. To save such work as this—in fact, all slab work— from having the appearance we find in some churches, and what your president rightly deprecates, several things have to be considered. For instance, if the walls are built of mortar, the sand of which is Thames sand, so—called but if that sand comes from the mouth of the Thames that constitutes sea sand. Consequently you will get that dampness and efflorescence that is usual with that kind of mortar the walls being cased '' with marble, the salt naturally finds its way through. Marble should never be



From a paper read by Mr. Hersey Flint before the Architectural Association

fixed solidly to the wall but left hollow, and also with a joint here and there left open to allow for the condensation that invariably takes place. The work should be well cramped to the wall with copper cramps. The best of plaster should be used in fixing, and I have no hesitation in saving that if slab work is fixed under these conditions, and wit It a care iii selecting suitable marbles, you will get satisfactory work, as shown by the slab work at the vestibule of the Athenaeum Club, National Gallery, and other places I could mention. These buildings were all in a proper state to receive marble. Then, again, as to keeping the work clean after it is fixed. All that is required is piper attention with dry dusters. Marble work should never be washed down as you wash tiles. The dust that clings to anything damp, if rubbed constantly on the polished surface, is literally ground into the face of the marble. This applies more especially to the light marble. Butt if a perfectly dry dusting is given to your work I venture to say that the result will be satisfactory. These may seem very ordinary remarks and may weary my hearers, but they are of great importance if you want satisfactory results.

The mason is a methodical man. the works a moulding say a cornice, for instance, or a string mould—he would proceed by applying his section to chamfers and then working his chamfers through. Now in designing your moulding this should be taken into consideration, as moulding drawn to suit the method of work— mug scents to lute to be only right , and in support of this I would ask you to examine the old specimens that are here, and also the  diagram 

Work drawn out these lines especially in marble, lessens the cost of labor considerably, he mason being able to get at it much better than if at the outset you upset his method of working. You will also observe that marble moulding drawn out these lines can be got out of these slabs and made out Wit hi a core of stone, thus giving you in effect solid cornices, etc. In drawing your sections for marble it is very essential dint you should have a knowledge of lie material and its capabilities of receiving mouldings. The composition of the various kinds varies to such an extent that a moulding that could be worked in one marble would be quite out oh the question in another. For instants, take a chimney piece in statuary or pavonazza and lieu one in the Cipolhina or Rouge Etrusque. What could be produced in the former mat trials would be quite out of lie question in the latter. Speaking generally, the rich colored marbles do not ask for an elaborate treatment in the way of mouldings; in fact, he different colors, lines and markings of the material are very apt to- upset the arrangement of moulding  unless they are treated in a broaui manner. The use of machinery has considerably redness the cost of marble work in England during lie past few years, and also the time taken in production. The use of marble by the architects during his revival, may I call it, has been very great, and I believe will be greater in the future, when its adaptabilities are mote widely arid better known

<article title=" HAMILTON ART SCHOOL " author="">

HAMILTON ART SCHOOL.

The annual meeting of the above school was held on the l4th of September, Rev. Dr. Lyle occupying the chair in time absence of the president. The report of the principal Mr. Ireland, stated that during the year 54 students were enrolled, and that the school was making satisfactory progress. The receipts of the year were shown by he secretary's report to be $3,522.01. which, with a balance of $102. 15 from last year, made a total of $3,624. u6. The expenditures amounted to $3,450.54.

The following were appointed the committee out examinations for 1896-7 John Knox, Thos. Beasley, F. W. Watkins, J. T. Barnard, G. H. Bisby, W. D. Long, J. J. Mason, A. OHeir, F.

B.	Greening, J. Pottinger, Dr. Gaviller.



The government medals and certificates amid the local prizes were given omit. Time following awards were announced

Architectural perspective. No prize given for hack of funds Herbert H. New, 1st hon. mom. no. 2nd and 3rd hon. mentions given to increase value of 1st.

Architectural design—Harold H. Mundy, winner H. G. Hatton, 1st hon. ment Herbert G. Mason 2nd, amid P. Stewart 3rd.

Drawing front t lie antique, full figure Walter R. Duff, winner Mabel S. Ireland, 1st bout. much. Jessie Kellar 2nd, K. Saunders 3rd.

Pen amid wash drawing for illustrating Marion E. Mat lice, winner C. Locke, inst hon. memi. A. N. Browne 2nd.

Building construction Andrew P. Stewart, winter Ralph Mason, 1st bout. men

Design for tiles and glass No prize given for lack of funds Ben Kilvert 1st hon. men no 2nd and 3rd hon. mentions given to increase value of 1st 

