	<doctype type="text">20	THE	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



with the Association. Of these 17 have passed the final examinatiOn, 7 subsequently registering as architects, and was admitted to registration as an architect after having passed the examination of the Royal Institute of British Architects.

Of new students the roll is as follows

	Registered in 1890	9

	1891	6

	1892	11

	1893	6

	1894	2

	1895	2

36

These students are nearly all in communication with the Association and seem to be following out its curriculum.



The Board of Examiners for 1895 were:

PROFESSOR GALBRAITH, Principal of the School of Practical Science, Chairman Mr. C. H. C. Wright, Lecturer in Architecture at the School of Practical Science, and the following members of the Association Messrs. Aylsworth, R. J. Edwards, W. R. Gregg, Helliwell, Symons, Townsend and Wickson.

	 The examinations held this year were as		follows

		No.	Passed.	Plucked

	First Intermediate	3	2

	Second	7	3	  4

	Final	4	1



PROCEEDINGS OF THE COUNCIL.

<article title=" PROCEEDINGS OF THE COUNCIL " author="">

Pursuant to t he action of the Convention with regard to improv— ed Municipal building and fire by-laws, a Committee of Toronto Architects, nominated by the Council, drew up a complete set of building by-laws and submitted them to the Mayor and Council of Toronto.

The proposed exhibition of architectural drawings was held in connection with the exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy, the drawings being contributed to the Academy exhibition and forming the architectural department of the exhibition.

A competition was instituted for drawings of the students diploma which at the last Convention it was decided to issue. The drawings submitted in competition were not satisfactory. A skilful draughtsman, who is a student of the Association, subsequently agreed to furnish a dra~ving and is engaged now in cornpleting it.

The most important work of the Council during the year was the endeavor to procure legislation amending the Act of Incorporation. Some difficulty was found in introducing the bill because of the antipathy which has arisen to giving independent power to corporations, and our bill when at last introduced was too low on the list to come on for debate in that session. It is now, however, ready for introduction on the earliest possible opportunitY at the next session. It has been discussed with the party principally opposed to giving uncontrolled power to corporate bodies, and in its present state meets with no opposition from that portion of the House. There seems every reason to believe that the bill is now in a position to meet with a fair hearing, and it has been found hitherto that public men who have had opportunity to give it a fair hearing have agreed that it would he a useful measure.

THE LIBRARY.



There has been one book added to the Library--a necessary text book.

There have been 129 lendings, or 18 more than in 1894.

W.	A. LANGTON,

Registrar and Librarian.



On motion by Mr. H. B. Gordon, seconded by Mr. Rastrick, the report was received and adopted.

The President then suggested the discussion of any business arising out of the reports.

Mr. W. R. Gregg inquired as to ~vhat had been the result of the action taken by the Committee appointed at the last Convention to communicate with the city authorities in regard to amending the then existing bylaws ?

Mr. Gordon stated that several of the gentlemen composing that committee had attended several meetings, and at the cost of no inconsiderable amount of labor had at last succeeded in preparing a complete bylaw, In the meantime they had apprised the City Hall authorities that they were engaged upon such a work, and, knowing that preparations were being made for the re-building of some of the edifices destroyed by the disastrous fires which had occurred shortly before, some of them buildings of great extent, and fearing that before they could lay their views in full before the city authorities, permits might be issued for the erection of some of these buildings, without the necessary restrictions which were under discussion, they had submitted an interim communication, presenting those points which the committee regarded as most urgent, and asking the city council to adopt them in the meantime, until they should be supplemented by the complete bylaw when the committee completed its labors. The points submitted were discussed by the city committee

on Fire and light, and to some extent adopted, but at the same time some very vital points ~vere not adopted, evidendy because very strong interests were brought to bear in opposition to the object the architects' cornmittee had in view. Those desirous of spending the minimum amount of capital and wishing to erect large buildings with undivided areas, and so on, at the very cheapest rate, had been able to so influence members of the city council that the object of the architects' committee was to a large extent defeated. They did, however, succeed in sonic points, some amendments that ~vere desirable being made to the by-laws, and although the labors of the committee had not brought forth all the results anticipated, he thought two results had been accomplished. First, they had demonstrated to the members of the city council, the fire underwriters, and others, that the Association of Architects ~vas interested in the matter, and fully alive to the necessity of the changes, and that they had gone to a great deal of trouble in order to present their views in a shape convenient to be legislated upon, and, secondly, the action taken had had the effect of bringing the Association more prominently before the public, and presenting in a very effect— ive and tangible form the benefit to the genera1 public of having such an organization in existence.

Mr. H. Paull said he noted in the minutes that any surplus over the expenditure was to be applied to the purchase of books for the library, and he learned from the report of the Librarian that during the year only one book had been purchased.

Mr. Langton explained that the book purchased was a work ~vhich was a necessity, but, as a matter of fact, there had been no surplus to apply to that object.

Mr. Gregg called attention to the fact that a committee had been appointed last year to advocate municipal im provements.

Mr. Langton said that the members of that committee were largely from outside of Toronto, Mr. Dick and Mr. Aylsworth being so far as lie was aware, the only city me m hers.

Mr. Dick said he was not able to make any report he did not remember having received notice of any meetings of the committee in question.

Mr. Langton said he had conversed with Mr. Ayls— worth once or twice during the year on the matter, and they had been agreed in believing that the committee could not call a meeting of influential citizens except for an obvious occasion. Their idea ~vas to find some influential person who would become interested in the matter to inaugurate the movement. They had been unable, however, to fix upon any suitable person who would be likely to accept the responsibility.

Mr. W. R. Gregg thought it was very important that this matter should not be lost sight of or allowed to drop, and suggested the retention for the coming y ear of the same committee, with some additional members, residents of Toronto.

After some further discussion Mr. Gregg moved, seconded by Mr. Townsend, that the said committee be continued for the coming year, with power to add to its numbers. (Carried.)

Mr. Langton said that he had been the mover of the resolution under which this committee was originally created, and that the idea was not that the committee should be expected to accomplish the desired objects within any limited time, but that the objects to be attained were of such a nature that the Association ought to be interested in them, and there ought to he a committee alive ready to act when any favorable oppor— tunity presents itself; which end would be attained by the resolution just passed.

Mr. Rastrick asked if the resolution applied to the members in outside places, that is, could the members in other places add to their numbers.

The President replied that he understood the resolution to practically have that effect.

Mr. H. Paull suggested the advisability of securing the co-operation of the Canadian Institute, the professors of the University, or any other body ~vhich might assist in forming a larger committee, which might influence the municipal authorities.

