<doctype type="text">

30





These suggested points, as well as others, might well he embodied in some general law but pending such, it is clearly the duty of each municipality to protect the public by such reasonable restrictions. In addition to such general requirements each town or city may need special enactments for the public safety, such as regulation of the construction of light areas and their protection points to be observed in utilizing the vault space under public sidewalks the disposal of water from roofs the protection of elevator shafts, and many other points.

Under the head of sanitary restrictions some laws might be made of general application to the entire province ; while a more stringent law should be applicable to those municipalities having public sewerage and water supply.

A foul cesspit contiguous to a dwelling and but shortly removed from a well that supplies drinking water is a menace to health in the scattered village as well as in the more thickly peopled town. Unconsciously back venting a cesspool by a badly constructed drain from a country house is quite as likely to produce diphtheria as an untapped connection from a town residence to the street sewer. A filthy pan closet in a country hotel is quite as objectionable as its town cousin in a more pretentious hostelry. The abolition of privy pits and the substitution of a more sanitary contrivance is vastly more important in the village street where domestic water is drawn from the adjacent well, than in the more closely built town with its public waterworks.

In municipalities that are inaugurating a public water supply and sewerage system, the necessity is very urgent for the immediate enactment of sanitary building laws. Citizens who in their united capacity spend tens of thousands of dollars to provide such public conveniences should see to if that the benefits thus obtained are not neutralized by unsanitary drains and plumbing, and that their last state is not worse than the first. Nearly every town has its tinsmith plumber who proceeds to nullify the benefits of public sewers and water supply by ventilating the public sewer into the houses of his confiding patrons.

The general requirements of a sanitary building bylaw are so well known as scarcely to require notice here:

the correct alignment and trapping of all drains and soil pipes ; the provisions for ventilating pipes and for preventing siphoning of traps; the material and character of all pipes used and the method of making joints ; the class of fixtures allowed ; the provisions for the efficient inspection of all parts and for the testing of the whole system. These and other points are well known to the practising architect and the city plumber. But alas, how limited is the knowledge and experience of the tinsmith plumber aforesaid, and his confiding patron ; and how great the need for some explicit law to guide the one and protect the other.

Under the heading of '' Provisions against the spread of fire," there is also much that might be of general enactment. It is surely as important for the country homestead to have a certain thickness of brickwork around its smoke flues and the chimney tops carried well up above the adjoining gables as it is for the town or city house. Negligence in the one case will likely result in the total destruction of the home, while in the other, a timely visit from the neighboring fire engine may extinguish the blaze before much damage is clone. One can hardly understand how a village or small town that spends thousands of dollars in the equipment and maintenance of a fire brigade, does not make the first effort to prevent the recurrence of serious fire risks by passing a suitable building law. Nor is the action of the authorities of larger places much more intelligent. We have the example of a large city, after very destructive and repeated fires, neglecting the advice of a committee of architects who pointed out at length the amendments of the law necessary to check a recurrence of the disasters.

The amount of money lost by fires in one year in Ontario, is enormous and much of that loss is attributable to negligent and unscientific building operations. The unthinking may pass this over by remarking that the insurance companies pay the most of the loss, and

that an occasional fire is necessary to keep up the peoples' interest in insuring. They forget that the insuring public have to pay the whole, and that insurance rates bear at least some proportion to the risks run and the loss sustained.

Some look to the insurance companies, to demand better building regulations, and no doubt they might do much in this direction. Their action in making their rates bear some relation to the efficiency of the fire brigade and fire extinguishing apparatus of a town, has quickened the movements of many a Council. Were the same pressure brought to bear in insisting on the enactment of rigid building by—laws, many a town councilor would awake to his duty in this respect. Some who have given this subject much thought, advise that the insurance companies classify buildings more definitely, and rate them more distinguishingly in regard to the material and manner of their construction.

The movement is in this direction and it is helpful to the architect as well as his enterprising client. But the usefulness of such a distinction is much curtailed by the character of surrounding buildings which may have been put up regardless of the fire risks they contain.

A general law for the whole province might cover such matters as: the manner of building chimneys, hearths and fireplaces ; the location, protection, and isolation of steam boilers, furnaces, forges, etc.; the insulation of hot pipes, the proper disposition and insulation of electric wires ; the isolation of buildings containing extra hazardous contents ; special regulations concerning the construction of theatres and other places of public amusement. And it would be well to have the erection of all hotels over a certain height, no matter where built, subject to some clearly defined rules of construction for the prevention or slow spreading of fire. It seems only reasonable, that everywhere, those who wish to build within a certain limit of the boundary of their property, should be under some restrictions, so as to prevent them creating a serious fire risk to endanger their neighbors' property. In towns and villages as well as in cities there should be some limitation as to the class of buildings allowed on the more thickly built streets.

Each city and town will require much more in their by-laws regarding fire protection.

The local conditions will largely determine whether the division of a town into zones in which the restrictions are graded, is desirable or not. The majority of important American cities make no distinction. As a tentative measure it is probably desirable in our young and scattered municipalities.

The central business and crowded part of a town re— quires more stringent regulation than the outlying districts. All parts however should be under some governing regulations, as it is foolish for any town to have a zone in which people can do as they like in the matter of building.

Some limit should be placed on the external use of wood, and the size and location of wooden sheds and stables should be regulated.

It will be found that even in the residential parts of a town, a fairly stringent building law will work for the ultimate advantage of the locality. ''Brick buildings only,' is not a severe restriction when their continued preservation is considered.

The kind of roof covering that may be used is an essential matter. The rapid spread of fires is largely attributable to the inflammable nature of the surrounding roofs. Wooden dormers and cornices are another prolific source of danger, and their construction and covering should be restricted or regulated. The size and description of party walls and of parapets above roofs are questions for necessary legislation, as many a serious fire has been checked by efficient walls.

The structure of stairs and their surroundings should be safeguarded with wise restrictions, not only to prevent the rapid extension of fire, but also for the safety of life.

The enclosing walls of elevator shafts are deserving of much more attention than they usually receive in building laws.

