<doctype type="text">	18	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



can help them in this, the passage of the Act will he more than justified.

The whole benefit of the Act (if passed) will accrue both to the profession of Architecture, as well as to the general public, in the future (and by no means in the immediate future)— -not in the present.

It is framed almost entirely in the interests of the young men who are just now entering, and who will continue to enter the ranks of the profession. It is to insist that they shall educate themselves thoroughly and properly for the work they shall eventually he called upon to carry Out and to induce them to take advantage of the various means of study which h are so reasonably and liberally offered to them T hey can enter the office of some member of the Association in the ordinary , serving a certain number of years tinder indentures or they may graduate from the School of Science (curt ailing by so doing the period of office work but all shall he required to offer themselves for examinations to he held from time to time and pass each and t11 of them successfully before being permitted to register and practice under the title of Architect.

The Government has only recently established chair of Architecture at the School of Practical Science. The Association can help greatly in making this Department a success and I can say without a doubt that we are most anxious and most destines of assisting it by every means in our power. As things ii at present, however, it is easy to see that there is little to the ordinary young man to spend the time and money necessary to take the course if, at the end of it, he will occupy in thc eyes of the



public no better position in the profession to which it le ads than that of any other youth who may have passed a year or two wandering from one office to another, or a builder's foreman who aspires to dub himself a professional man, or an auctioneer, or an undertaker, or anybody else who chooses to stick up his shingle and call himself an Architect.

It is only the very exceptional student who will avail himself of the great advantages of the School, and as the supply of exceptional young men is limited in all walks of life, the number of students at the School (if things remain as they are) will necessarily be much curtailed.

The Government must surely wish to see the School succeed— else what on earth was the use of their spending the money where. with to start it, but if voting men are to be induced to enter it at all it must be clearly shown that it is to their advantage, (and by advantage I do not mean merely the advantage which a mar gains over his fellows by means of a more thorough education but it must he shown also that the profession which they intend entering (and to which the course they are taking at the School is merely a stepping stone) carries with it a title which will give them a definite standing in the community—- that it is a profession which can only be entered by- men who have devoted much care, time and attention to their education and to the acquiring of that special knowledge necessary- to the satisfactory practice of them calling. I say most unhesitatingly that the Government will discover that these young men having taken the time, and having gone through the labor and exertion of pumping themselves for the necessary examinations anti having passed them successfully, will expect, and very properly-, and very naturally expect, that they will find themselves in a somewhat different position, in that profession, for the practise of which they have spent so much labor and time in preparing themselves from that occupied by a man who may have given himself no further trouble than having a sign painted 

We follow the shorter road rather than the longer as a rule. The public does not concern itself greatly as to the mean- of education previously followed by men who have hung out a sigh in hopes of attracting business. Any-one or everyone can, at present, if he so choose, call himself an .Architect, and there exists no means by which the public can know whether he derived the title by working through the School of Architecture or by working through saw—mill———it's all one to them, until some— thing happens, and then the whole profession suffers.

The thing is ridiculous and absurd, and neither the profession nor the School can possibly- be the success they might he until things are altered.

We should like above all things to make the young men go through the course of education which is necessary, but we have no means of compelling them. A good deal is done by persuasion

showing them the advantages which they will undoubtedly

and by	 reap in the future. The few who do take the advice and prepare





and offer themselves for examination deserve great credit.

But unfortunately the number (at no time as large as it should have been) is growing smaller. They- find it irksome and only the enthusiastic ones persevere the rest become disheartened and drop off. What is the good,'' they say, So—and—So has been studying in an office for a year or two and now lie has started up in business for himself, has got several things to do and calls himself a full—fledged Architect. What's the use of my slaving away- for four or five years and working up a lot of examinations, when so far as the public can tell there's no difference between us.

It is foolish I admit, but it is not unnatural, and the consequence is that the country is being flooded with a lot of half—educated young men calling themselves Architects who can many of them make pretty drawings and sketches, but who can have never in all their lives done any real good honest hard work in reading tip the perhaps somewhat hat dry, possibly uninteresting, but nevertheless absolutely necessary, practical and scientific side of the education of an Architect t side which cannot possibly' be neglected without very great, and possibly very serious detriment, to the interests or their future clients

This Bill would iii a large measure stop all this, as students

would have to work properly at the practical side of their professional education in order to successfully Pass their examinations.

If they did not choose to do so, if they were too lazy, too idle, or too incompetent, why then they would drop out and follow some the walk in life. Or should they see fit notwithstanding their failure still to pursue the practice of Architecture they- would be at perfect liberty- to do so, the would be nothing to stop them nor would the Act interfere with them in any way, that is so long as they did not presume to use the title Architect.'' That honorable appellation would he reserved for such only as have



prepared themselves for the responsibilities of the position by a steady course of honest conscientious study', and that is what after a lapse of fifteen or twenty' years the title of Architect will come to mean in the eyes of the public, a distinction by' which men can tell the difference between one who has been properly and scientifically educated for his calling in life and one who has picked up such knowledge as he may' possess at hap—hazard.

Surely', gentlemen, this is not asking much at the hands of any-Government.

To us of this generation the passing of the Act can make little if indeed any difference, save that as the years go on the young men will come into the arena better equipped, better educated and therefore more formidable rivals to the older men who had not in their day the advantages now at the hands of the younger ones.

It is the students of to—day and the public of the future who will reap the fruits of our labors Certainly we who are moving in the matter can he held guiltless of self seeking for of any actual personal immediate advantages are none. Of a truth it maybe said that we are sowing where shall not reap.

All this I am afraid you will say is going over old and familiar ground, amid I feel tempted to apologize for taking up so much of your time with it. But I cannot help feeling very seriously that the importance of it to the very life and existence of the Association is so great that it cannot be traversed too often. I want very much to bring it home to all of you that it is absolutely necessary, in order that we may he able to discuss the question thoroughly, that we should have the whole details of this proposed legislation at our finger ends amid be thoroughly' conversant with every phase of it. It is the one great thing we must succeed in carrying out if time work of the Association is to be crowned with success.

There is still time before the House meets for all of tins to do something towards familiarizing the members of the Legislature with our aims, and I shall not I am sure appeal to this Association when I ask them to do all they can in that direction.

Owing to various circumstances, the Act could not last year he introduced until almost the close of the session anti it was felt to he unwise to court a possible defeat by bringing it up at a time when full discussion could have been given to it or the members of the House made fully conversant with all its details. On the advice therefore of our friends in the House we decided to withdraw it.

It is hoped that this y-ear it will he presented early in the session, butt before that occurs it will he necessary' for us to see that if possible every member of the Legislature is thoroughly informed

-	of the details of the measure. If this is done it is hardly' possible to imagine that any active opposition to its pass-age can be offered.

I have occupied so much of your time with this question of Legislation that I fear to try' your

 patience longer, but I should like to say' something about what is usually called the ethics of the profession. We hear a lot about ethics, It is a fine high  sounding term most frequently employed when one Architect thinks another has changed

 less than the usual five per cent, commission. Them the injured one gets on a pedestal amid talks ethics. It sounds well and means nothing. It is a sort of architectural form of swearing, for one hears it most when there has been a row of some sort and this row is almost invariably about money matters of one kind or another. Or the injured man writes to the Council asking '.'.hat t hey are going to do about it, for it seems to be thought in some that this Association is a sort of trades union and that everybody' belonging to it does

amid must charge all their clients		nothing less than the acknow

ledged tariff list of fees

I am afraid also that b'. some it is considered that the legislation we am seeking will in some mysterious way give to every

man the legitimate	scale of fees	whether he will or no. Anyone

indulging in that '.me'.'. is going to lie disappointed. The legislation asked tot or any other legislation will never do that for tins. We are going to collect the same fees we have always done neither more, or less. The passing or the non-passing- of the Act will make no difference whatever in that respect. This Association does not say anywhere that every man belonging to it is bound to charge the full fees, amid on that nobody can blame any member who is foolish enough (or homiest enough as the case may' be) to ask less than the tariff allows him. The Council have been asked from time to time questions on this subject and have bath complaints made that this member or that member is doing work for less than the usual rates. the Council can do nothing in such matters, nor can they' take cognizance of any such complaints. There is a table of fees, certainly, which architects are in the habit generally' of following but that list was in existence bug before this Association was formed. Members of this Association can adopt it or not just as they been fit, but the Council have no power to compel them to so.

This Association is not a Court of Justice, it is not inaugurated as such nor was it ever intended to be any thing of the kind The council does not sit in other to hear charges brought by one member against another with respect to the fees he asks or as to the manner in which lie chooses to conduct his business.

