<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 24



in protecting its exponents, it in some cases works a correlative injustice to the other party by giving him absolutely nothing for a very fair fee. However, there is no reason why this should ever be more than a theoretical difficulty, if architects were to take the precaution of inserting in their contracts a provision that in any event, the property in the plans remains theirs.

Before leaving the subject of the plans, I may mention that it has been decided that the employer does not guarantee to the contractor the feasibility of the architect's drawings, and in a case where the contract

provided that certain caissons to be used in the building of piers, were to be made of the materials and in the form shown by the drawing, it was found that the proposed method was unworkable, and another plan had to be adopted, and although the contractor was put to a good deal of extra expense, he failed in an action against the employer to recover the amount. lie would have been equally unsuccessful in an action against the architect, because of the want of privacy between them, and the suit would have been dismissed without coming to a hearing. The rule is that no action for a wrong can he maintained, unless the wrong complained of arise out of a contract or from the violation of a duty.

The extreme limit of this doctrine will appear from a case which has the appearance of working great hardship, if not of doing a real injustice. A person who proposed advancing money on a loan by way of mortgage on a building, wrote to the firm of valuators employed why the owner, telling them of his intention and asking their opinion on the value of the buildings, and the advisability of the loan. The valuators, by gross carelessness, gave too large a value, and the mortgagee suffered a loss in consequence It was held that he could not recover against the appraiser. It will be noticed that there was no contract between them the defendants had merely given a gratuitous opinion, on which the mortgagee might act or not, as he pleased, and that there was no duty imposed by law on the defendants to show any degree of care towards the plaintiff, as long as they avoided actual fraud. Applying this rule to the architect's specifications, it follows that a builder cannot obtain redress, should he suffer loss by relying upon them he must satisfy himself before tendering of their feasibility.

I have left as the last question for discussion, what is perhaps the most interesting of all, namely, the owner's right of action against the architect for negligence. Until lately the views of the public and of the profession have diverged on this question, quite as emphatically as on the right to the plans, but recent decisions in the United States have happily set the architect's position on a better footing.

The lay view may be stated somewhat as follows An architect is retained to see that the builder carries out his work properly, and if the builder scamps his work or makes a mistake, the architect must pay for it, because this is what he is retained for in other words, that the architect guarantees the competence and good faith of the builder and his men.

The architect on the other hand submits that even if perfect accuracy were possible, to insure this he would have to be in constant attendance at the building, anti even in two or more parts of it at the same time, and that the remuneration he receives would be no compensation even for the less difficult of these tasks.

The layman's view, it will be noticed, assumes that any imperfection is conclusive evidence of negligence, while the architect says, " I admit my liability for negligence, but it must be brought home to me on the facts of each particular case.

The difference between these two views is fundamental, as will presently appear. In the English cases we have very little to help us on this point, perhaps because the architects there are better advised than to bring the actions which are common enough in the States and in this Province, or perhaps because English architects are more careful. The general proposition which the law lays down is this Every professional man guarantees that he possesses a reasonable degree of skill in his profession, and that any work entrusted to him will be carried out with reasonable care, anti he is liable in damages if he fails to display such skill and care, and loss ensues to his client. The utmost skill attainable is not required of him, but only' a reasonable amount, and this will differ according to circumstances. If I employ a village architect whose highest flight has, to my knowledge, been the village inn, to build a concert hall, I cannot complain if the acoustic arrangements are defective.

But in the matter we are now discussing, the question of liability generally depends, not so much on the degree of skill displayed, as on the care shown, or, rather, absence of care, that is to say, negligence.

In one of the American cases to which I have referred, the contract with the mason provided that he should lay out his work himself. When the wood was nearly completed the sills of the front first-story windows were found to be set 234 inches higher from the floor than those of the rear windows on the same storey, although they were intended to be on the same level. When the finish was put in, the firm of the windows cut into the plaster cornice, injuring the appearance of the room. In a suit by the architect to recover his charges it was referred to a referee, who found on the evidence that the plaintiff had bestowed as much personal attendance upon the building as was necessary, and that the variations mentioned were not caused by carelessness, negligence or inattention on his part. This decision was reversed by the Superior Court, but restored by the Court of Appeals. The Court said, It, (the defect), arose from the masons not having accurately conformed to the specification and plans. Was the plaintiff responsible for the fault of the masons? The plaintiff agreed to make plans, sections, elevations, and specifications, and to superintend the progress of the building to be erected. It was not his duty to do the work. I do not think it was the duty of the plaintiff to measure the joists or timber of which the different storeys were to be constructed, and to determine by actual measurement that the ceiling of the first story had an elevation of 13 feet, and the second had an elevation of II feet, or to measure the thickness or depth of the brick or stone walls. The defendant however contends that the obligation of the plaintiff to superintend the progress of the building bound him to discover and correct the error corn mitten by the mechanics. The plaintiff did assume the superintendence of the erection of the building, and must meet the obligations of his contract. The plaintiff came from day to day to superintend the progress of the work, and while thus superintending was he bound to have ascertained that the window sills in the front parlor were 2 3/4' inches higher from the floor than was authorized by the plan? He, (the referee) found that the

plaintiff had bestowed as much personal attention on the building as was necessary, and that the variations mentioned were not caused by carelessness, negligence, or inattention on his part. 1 do not find it necessary to differ with him."

I take the liberty of quoting from the judgment in another New York case, in which the question is discussed if possible with even greater clearness than the last.

"The learned counsel would not claim," says the judgment, "that an architect is bound to spend all his time at a building that is going up under his professional care, so that no fraud or negligence can be committed by any of the contractors. The counsel would not contend that the architect is an insurer of the perfection of the mason work, the carpenter work, the plumbing, etc. lie is bound only to exercise reasonable care, and to use reasonable powers of observation and protection in the supervision of the structure. When therefore it appears that the architect has made frequent visits to the building, and in a general way has performed the duties called for by the custom of the profession the mere fact, for instance, that inferior bricks have been used in places, does not establish as matter of law that he has not entirely performed his contract. He might have directed at one of his visits that portion of the plumbing work he packed in wool. Upon his next return to the building, it might have been covered with brickwork in the progress of the building, If he had enquired whether the wool packing had been attended to and had received an affirmative answer from the plumber and the bricklayer, I am of opinion that his duty as an architect in the matter of the required Protection of the said pipes from the weather, would have been ended. Yet under these very circumstances, the packing might have been intentionally or carelessly omitted, in fraud upon the architect and owner, and could it still be claimed that the architect had not fully performed his work? The learned counsel for the appellant is in effect asking us to hold that the defects of the character above named establish as a matter of law, that the plaintiffs have not fully performed their agreement. An architect is no more a mere overseer or fireman or watchman than he is a guarantee of a flawless building; and the only question that can arise in a case where general performance of duty is shown, is whether, considering all the circumstances and peculiar facts involved, he has or has not been guilty of negligence. This is a question of fact, and not of law.

It is perhaps necessary to add that in this case the architect had not given his final certificate, and left the building with this manifest defect in it. He had, in fact, refused to give the contractor a certificate, and the owner had settled with the latter in spite of this. But the judges refused to base their decision on this ground. They treated it as a question of negligence or no negligence on the part of the architect, but you will notice that from the peculiar facts of the case, the point for their decision was this, Did the failure of the architect to detect the error at the time it was made establish negligence? The referee had found no negligence, and the Court refused to differ with him, thus treating the alleged negligence as a question of fact and not as an inference of law.

Let us consider now how the architect's liability for negligence has been dealt with in this province.

I find a case referred to in the October number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The plaintiff, who was obliged to sue for his fees, had been employed to superintend the erection of an hotel in a country village. The defendant set up that there was a defect in the building for which the architect was responsible. The defect complained of was a slight sinking of the floor in the centre of the building, and showing in one of the principal rooms and the main hall. The amount that the floor was out of level was one-thirteenth of an inch to the foot one way, and about one-sixth of an inch across. No plaster was cracked, no doors bound, and no inconvenience of any sort was occasioned. From the report of the case, it does not appear that evidence was adduced to show that the architect had been sedulous in his attendance at the building, nor does any evidence appear to have been offered to prove the contrary, but it was shown that the architect had himself leveled the ground floor joists when they were laid, and left them true and level. The judge, in summing up the evidence, said that undoubtedly there was a defect in the building, and he gave judgment for the plaintiff with costs, less a sum which it had been shown it would require to raise the floor and make it level.

Here we have a case in which the judge was evidently imbued with the idea that wherever a defect occurs, the architect must pay for it. That is to say, in direct violation of the principle laid down in the cases which I have cited, he regarded the mere existence of a defect as conclusive proof of the architect's negligence. Assuming the case has been accurately reported, one would think in the absence of evidence showing that the failure of the architect to discover the error was due to his want of skill or neglect of duty, and no such evidence appears to have been offered; that he had faithfully discharged his duty in leveling the joists himself, and seeing that they were true and level. If architects are to be held to so strict an account as this, their only safety will lie in employing a clerk to be in constant attendance at the works, and putting the charges up accordingly.

If in an action by a surgeon to recover his fees, he were met with the defense that the operation which he had performed had left an unsightly scar, it would be rather a startling conclusion, if the judge without any evidence of negligent or improper treatment, were to lay down the proposition, that as the scar undoubtedly existed, the surgeon must reduce his charges as compensation to the defendant.

But on the other hand, it must not be forgotten that a judgment in a decided case is only of authority for the precise point there decided, and that while the principle laid down by the American cases to which I have referred, seems to be sound and to establish all that architects need reasonably' ask, it would be very dangerous to act on the illustration given in one of them, as a rule of practice. I refer to the judge's opinion in the case put by him of the pipes which required to be packed in wool. There are times no doubt in the erection of a building, where the architect's attendance is required to be more frequent than at others, especially where work is being done which can be speedily covered, and it may well be that a jury would be justified in finding negligence, in spite of the most careful Enquirer on the part of

 the architect to ascertain the truth, if at such times work were improperly done during his absence and covered; and again the defect might be so great and the neglect so

