<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

gross as to justify an immediate finding of negligence which could not be upset by any amount of evidence of careful attention to his duties on the part of the architect. But if the principle laid down in the State of New York finds acceptance in Ontario, architects have the satisfaction of knowing that their liability for negligence will in future depend on the facts of each particular case as established by the evidence, and not on any preconceived idea of his duties in the minds either of judges or juries.



At the conclusion of the paper the President expressed the pleasure and satisfaction be had had in listening to it, and tendered the thanks of the Association to Mr. Gwynne.

Mr. Dick, in seconding the vote of thanks, said that Mr. Gwynne's paper was a very valuable contribution to the literature of the Convention, and when published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER would enable architects to avoid many of the pit-falls and snares to which they were exposed. while listening to it he had been impressed with the idea that the life of the architect, like that of Gilbert & Sullivan's policeman, "was not a happy one," because he was always exposed to two fires, the client on the one hand and the contractor on the other. There seemed to be a good deal of uncertainty in the law, and in many cases the decisions seemed to hinge a great deal on who was the judge. There was a certain amount of consolation for the architect in the paper, however, in regard to his liability for defects in workmanship, or for careless, slovenly or scamped work. In regard to the question of the ownership of plans, it seemed to him that where a proprietor paid a recognized fee of two-and-a-half per cent. he was fairly entitled to the plans. He thought it was fair and right that architects should retain copies of plans for their own future reference, but where a client paid the two-and-a-half per cent. which was recognized as the value of preparing plans, he thought it was not unreasonable that they should become his property, especially where he abandoned the idea of building. Of course if the architect believed he was going to he employed to superintend the work at the full commission, and then the owner, under the impression that he could get the superintendino done cheaper, should say, ''I will pay you for the plans," it would be a rather shabby thing on the part of the employer, though he did not know that morally the architect had very much ground for complaint as long as he got his fair proportion. These commissions, while purely arbitrary, were after all a very fair way of arriving at the value of certain services.

Mr. Langton said he was glad to think that the general drift of Mr. Gwynne's advice to architects was hopeful that the trouble which was sometimes encountered in settling with clients, and at times, when driven to the last resort, in obtaining a verdict from a jury, could be obviated by taking a little pains in the first instance to give a clear understanding of what the architect expected to receive. In regard to the ownership of plans, it had always seemed to him that the owner had a right to plans, but there ought to be some means of preventing him from regarding the plans as his property to be used again, as for instance, where a design has been supplied for one house and the proprietor subsequently puts up a row. He thought some rights ought to bc reserved to the architect in his plans, although no doubt the owner had a right to receive that for which he had paid.

Mr. Burke said that architects when settling up with clients were frequently met by a request that now the building is finished he will hand over the plans. He thought experience dictated the handing over of the plans, because an architect might leave the country, and in a year or two if the plans were wanted they could not be obtained.

Mr. Baker thought the plans without the specifications did not amount to much, as they would not be very intelligible to a builder without the details.

Mr. Dick related an instance where there was a stoppage of the drains in a house, and when the owner who possessed plans was asked where they were she did not know. He thought that was the usual state of affairs. He had understood Mr. Gwynne to say that a proprietor did not guarantee the infallibility of the plans to the

contractor, and he would like to know how far that principle applied, because in some instances it might work rather a hardship On the contractor. Suppose a foundation wall was designed too thin to carry the wall above it, would that be a case in which the owner of the building might call upon the contractor ?

Mr. Gordon said the question of responsibility was a very broad one, and there was one aspect of it which might be mentioned. There might be points in connection with the drainage or other details which might be covered up, and on which the architect might certify, and the whole transaction be closed as far as the proprietor and contractor were concerned. A year or two after something might transpire which would disclose to the owner for the first time, and also to the architect, that there had been crooked or negligent work on the contractor's part, and the point might be raised that it was the duty of the architect to have investigated. As they all knew, the responsibility of an architect was by no means ended when he was paid his account. Thc case he had supposed was not at all a fanciful one ; he thought there was no architect in the room who was not cognizant of such cases. He did not know of any instance in which an architect had actually been sued, but they had been threatened, and it certainly appeared as if they were open to proceedings. It had always appeared to him that there must be some way of wording the final settlement between proprietor and contractor which would, at least to some extent, protect the architect against these unforeseen contingencies, and he thought it was time very close attention was given to the form of both progress and final certificates in order to attain that end.

Mr. Wickson said that in some forms of contract it was specially stated that the final certificate did not exonerate the contractor from liability.

Mr. Gordon suggested that in the meantime the contractor might have failed in business.

The President then put the motion for a vote of thanks, which was carried very heartily.

Mr. Gwynne, in acknowledging the vote of thanks, said that with regard to the last point raised, it must be borne in mind that no general proposition of law could be laid down, each case always depending on its own state of facts, but if as in the supposed case a defect subsequently appeared, it became simply a question of whether such defect was due to the architect's negligence ; and the greater the length of the period between the erection of the building and the discovery of the latent defect the greater the difficulty in showing that it was due to negligence, and the more difficult would it be to succeed against the architect.

Mr. Helliwell said that before the subject was dropped there was another point he would like to raise, that was the difference between the duties of an architect and a clerk of the works. In the erection of larger buildings it was usual to employ a clerk of the works who spent his entire time on the building. The supervision of such a man must manifestly extend further into the minor details than that of the architect. He thought if the distinction between the duties of an architect and those of the clerk of the works was more sharply brought out it would prove beneficial to all concerned. It ought to be clearly understood that the architect was only responsible for the general supervision of the work.

Mr. Townsend said he had adopted a course which he thought quite covered the whole question of the ownership of the plans, remuneration and many other points, that was to send his clients a copy of the little pamphlet containing a schedule of fees and other conditions of service and ask them to read it over, as being the terms under which he would act.

The President said he had done the same thing, and in one instance a client had signed the pamphlet.

Mr. Pearson said he would like to refer to the clause in the contract providing for the payment of a penalty by the contractor for the non—completion of work by a specified time. Lie believed that it was held that to succeed under that the owner had to show actual damage sustained by reason of not having the building at

