<doctype type="text">

Special restrictions are desirable for all buildings over a certain height ,so that they may not prove towering fire giants, to spread brands of destruction in every direction. It is regarded by many as only right, that al— buildings over a certain height should be built as fireproof as modern conditions will allow.

In defining the special requirements for the different classes of buildings, it is desirable to have a classification with accompanying definition clearly setting forth what is intended by buildings of a certain class.

The following six fold division is suggested

1st. Public building class, including all places of public assembly, that have audience rooms capable of seating more than a certain limited number.

2nd. Hotel class, including hospitals, asylums, and lodging houses accommodating more than a certain number.

3rd. The Manufactory class.

4th. The warehouse class.

5th. The Office Building class.

6th. The Dwelling House class.

It will occur to all that structures of the public building class require special regulations for their construction and maintenance, that the audiences may be protected in case of fire and panic.

Buildings of the manufactory class, as well as the hotel class, should have stairways protected from rapid firing, and suitable fire escapes easily accessible.

The restriction of the undivided floor area of warehouses and factories is a wise measure, provided that exception is made in favor of buildings constructed on so called fire proof or slow burning principles.

Building by-laws should contain clauses dealing with the question of repairs or alterations to existing buildings. These should state the percentage of value of allowable repairs to old structures that do not comply with the by-laws and the basis of valuation from which this percentage is to be determined.

By—laws can only be made definite and explicit by con— taming a glossary of the terms used throughout their enactments. The importance of this is evident to all who have had to interpret building laws.

How essential it is to have a clear statement of the datum line from which the height of walls or buildings is to be measured, to know just what is intended by first story, and what is a basement and what a cellar to be sure that your idea of the maximum or minimum height of a story will not conflict with that of the official administering the law ; to know what is meant by bearing wall, division wall, party wall and partition wall to solve the seemingly simple question of what constitutes a mansard roof to have settled without cavil, what is mortar ? what is cement mortar, and what is cement ? and even to be informed which ton is meant when such weight is mentioned.

It is when we consider the last or aesthetic side of building laws, that debatable ground is fully entered. Here unartistic democracy puts down its foot and forbids further restriction.

The abstract aesthetic question of having the fronts of all houses in a line at a certain distance from the street, arouses no enthusiasm. But let a concrete case arise where some selfish men obtrude their buildings so far forward as to thrust their neighbors into obscurity, and those who suffer are likely to be interested in a proposed remedy.

The public may not appreciate the beauty of curtailing the height of buildings to some proportion to the width of the street upon which they arc built ; yet they might apprehend the justice of not allowing some men to completely overshadow the light and air of their neighbors.

If people will tolerate unsightly projections of signs, oriels and cornices, so long as it is merely an aesthetic question, possibly they may protest that space belonging to the public is occupied by private parties.

Ordinarily men do not care to be tied to a building line or allow some of their property to be regarded as a boulevard, but who that has visited Washington and

other cities, where such regulations are in force, can help being impressed by the result.

It is only by comparison with what has been done elsewhere, that we can educate the general public to a sense of the needs at home.

What would have been the result if each of the architects of the Chicago World's Fair buildings had been allowed to work his own sweet will without a concerted action or critical oversight may be left to the imagination. What they did accomplish under wise restrictions as to height of cornice line and general style of design the Court of honor bore witness.

Possibly we may never reach the aesthetic status of some continental cities where the street front architecture on important boulevards is subject to the approval of a public official ; but the enactment of some effective, if less stringent by—law in this direction, should be the desire of all lovers of architecture.

A building by-law would not be complete without some regulations to be observed during the erection of buildings, such as, the proportion of the public street that may be occupied by building materials the protection and convenience of the passing public by covers and sidewalks ; the height and manner of scaffolds abutting on the streets; the protection of open areas and excavations; the erection of temporary sheds, engines, etc.

Any by-law, however complete, will be a comparative failure without efficient administration. So secure this a really first-class man must be appointed as inspector of buildings. Only such should be appointed to this important position to protect the lives and property of the people and oversee so much that tells for the safety comfort and enjoyment of the masses. To get the right man in the right place is often a difficult matter when the reach of aldermanic influence is at work. The one who is really competent will not seek the office. The position ought to seek him.

Some one ought to be appointed, who besides a practical experience in the supervision of buildings is competent to make the necessary examinations, calculations and decisions both theoretical and practical in all matters pertaining to the by-laws. He should be a man incorruptibly above reproach, and while courteous to all, firm and just in administering the spirit of the law. Such a man should have discretionary power to modify the provisions of the by-law where there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the exact letter of the law, so long as the spirit of the law is observed, the safety of the public secured and substantial justice done. his duties should include the examination of the plans and specifications of all proposed buildings, to determine if the contemplated work is in accordance with the building by-laws ; the granting of permits for the execution of such work ; the examination as often as practicable of all buildings in course of erection ; the examination of all buildings reported as dangerous; and the prosecution of all who infringe the by—laws.

A permit should in all cases precede building operations, and to obtain it a copy of both plans and specifications should be filed.

The specification is necessary to inform the inspector of the character of material and the method of construction. The filing of both plans and specifications is essential for reference as the work proceeds. By the sun print process copies of the plans may easily be supplied. Architects should not grumble at such extra trouble, as they will doubtless find that such requirements tend towards their being more frequently employed.

The foregoing suggested points, together with much that naturally accompanies them, when properly amplified, clearly stated and systematically arranged, should form the basis of municipal building laws.

They may serve to point out the desirability of enacting building laws in small towns and even villages. They may suggest some necessary amendments to existing by-laws in other places, and may convey some ideas favorable to the passing of a provincial act.

If their perusal stimulates the members of this Association to active efforts for the improvement of building

