<doctype type="text">



very unchangeable, a priori he would say they would be very good materials to mix with oil.

Mr. A. F. Paull inquired if Prof. Ellis could recommend anything for the prevention of dry rot better than corrosive sublimate.

Prof. Ellis answered that so far as he knew corrosive sublimate was the best thing to use to destroy the spores. Of course paint did not destroy the spores, but merely assisted in keeping them out, and as soon as it cracked they could enter through the cracks.

Mr. Gregg, following up the question put by the President, asked whether the same objection that had been spoken of as to red led existed when the red lead was used for priming for which it had always been understood to be a good substance—and two or three coats of another color applied afterwards.

Prof. Ellis answered that he thought it did not ; he had only mentioned the objection to red lead because it was more liable to change, and was not so permanent as other colors.

Mr. Dick said that in the earlier part of his lecture Prof. Ellis had made some very practical remarks in regard to the properties of timber. An illustration in connection with this occurred to his mind, and no doubt others present had met with the same thing in the course of their work-—in the case of a warehouse, for example, where a row of columns was run through the length of the building and a beam resting from column to column, just resting upon each column. The difficulty to be contended with was, that this beam was a little unsightly if left in its natural condition, while, on the other hand, if painted, it was well known what consequences might be expected. Generally speaking in a not very long time rot would be found somewhere in that beam. He presumed from the warmness of the building and the natural moisture not being dried out of the timber, this mushroom growth spoken of by [)r. Ellis set in. He supposed the spores must have been present in the wood in the first place. lie had often himself, and he supposed others had done the same thing, left beams just as they were, unpainted, for a year or two, until they were thoroughly dry, and then had them painted. It had occurred to him that it might be a good thing to leave such a beam unpainted for a year or two, enveloping it in the meantime in cotton batting until it has become thoroughly well seasoned. The effect of the cotton wool, he thought, would be to filter the air that reached the beam and retain a great many of the spores in the cotton. It would be worth trying as an experiment he thought. Whether the rot was caused by the mushrooms spoken of by Dr. Ellis, or some other organisms, he did not know, but the fact was undoubtedly that in every case where beams were painted the rot sooner or later made its appearance.

Mr. A. F. Paull asked Mr. Dick if he thought that such a beam as would be required to sustain a number of joists in the way suggested, if left in its natural state for two or three years, would then be sufficiently seasoned to admit of its being painted with safety? Professor Barrow, whose works were published, and who had made experiments with regard to the seasoning of timber extending over fifteen or sixteen years, had discovered that at the end of that period the seasoning process was still going on. If Prof. Barlow was right the prevailing opinion was that wood became sufficiently seasoned after two or three years to make it prudent to apply paint was wrong.

Mr. Dick thought practical experience had demonstrated that in most cases two or three years was a sufficiently long period for the beam to get seasoned in, but Mr. Paull was quite right in saving that wood scarcely ever ceased from the process of seasoning. He knew of a case where an old deal table which had been in use for some twenty years in a building insufficiently warmed by the ordinary stoves had been moved into a new building heated by steam, and it had not been there very long before one day it went off like a pistol shot, cracking its entire length.

The President related an instance which occurred in England, in which some old beams taken out of a church were sawn up for another purpose, and they afterwards

both warped and cracked, and if anything might be expected to be thoroughly seasoned certainly those beams might have been.

Mr. Belcher remembered a case where an old hardwood floor was taken up, the boards re-dressed, the joints shot, and the floor re-laid, the joints being cramped up perfectly tight, the boards doweled together and everything left perfectly tight. About two months after it was found that one might a1most put a penny piece between the joints of the boards in places. He attributed this to the fact that the old flooring had been left out of doors for a short time during the process of the work, which occupied about two weeks, and had absorbed moisture. '[he floor he had no doubt was at least two hundred years old.

Mr. Townsend said one of the great difficulties architects had to contend with was that of not being able to get what they specified, particularly in the matter of oil. He understood from what Dr. Ellis had said that the value of paints depended almost entirely on the quality of the oil used, and if Dr. Ellis could give sonic rapidly applied test, by which, without any deep knowledge of chemistry, an architect could ascertain what was a good sample of oil, he would be conferring a great favor on the members of the Association and the profession at large. Another matter which he had been perplexed about was the presence of turpentine in paint, as to whether it had a deleterious effect.

Prof. Ellis said he could not give the desired assistance in regard to testing oil, but unfortunately the testing of oils was one of the most troublesome things a chemist had to do. Of course anyone accustomed to oil would be able to tell by its physical properties, and could form a very fair idea, but the chemical tests of oils were among the most awkward and troublesome things he had to handle. In regard to turpentine, he did not know of its having any injurious effect except as a diligent. Of course from a practical standpoint he knew less about these matters than his hearers, but what he understood was that the turpentine when it evaporated left the oil behind it in a kind of crystalline residue, leaving the paint in a form similar to the figures of salts left on a piece of glass when a solution is allowed to dry off. The term '' crystalline he did not of course use in its strict sense, and it was misleading, because oil is so very much removed from being any-thing like crystalline in its structure.

Mr. Langton asked if he was right in understanding that the fungi referred to could do no harm except where in addition to being damp it was also dark.

Prof. Ellis said they grew better in the dark.

Mr. Langton inquired if they would be likely to grow In a room such as that in which the convention was being held?

Prof. Ellis said they would in the centre of the timber.

Mr. Langton said that as the only object in painting wood above the cellar is to keep it from being affected by variations of dampness and dryness which make it warp and crack in an unsightly manner, in places where a few cracks are of no consequence as in the timber of a church roof, the best thing would be to avoid filling, and use water colors merely to disguise the discoloration of age, because otherwise one might be keeping n the dampness which produced the growth of the fungi.

Prof. Ellis said that as a general statement that was no doubt right. Spores would grow where it was clamp, they would not grow where it was dry. The application of oil paints constituted a waterproofing, and if there was dampness in the wood before it was painted the painting would have the effect of retaining it there, but if the wood was dry and the coating remained impervious, it would keep dampness out.

Mr. Power said he thought a very good test of oil was to place a sample on a sheet of glass and leave it in a room at a temperature of about 68 ; if it formed a film, or dried in about twenty four hours it might be regarded as fairly good, and one might judge of its deterioration in quality by the time it took longer than that to dry. Another point was that an oil in which you had to put much turpentine was not a good oil. The older

