<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER



obtains a mushroom spore, and then selects a warm, damp spot in a cellar, out of the light, and provides a bed of decaying organic material and there sows his mushroom spore. He maintains a moderately warm temperature, and then the mushrooms will grow and multiply, Now we know that decaying wood is nothing but a decaying mushroom bed, we know it decays because the mushroom spores get into various lodging places in it, and there develop, and in the act of so growing disintegrate and destroy the wood. Therefore, in order to preserve wood from decay, all we have to do is to prevent the mushrooms from growing in it. Of course I do not mean edible mushrooms, but plants, whether large or small, of the same botanical nature as the mushroom which grow and are propagated in the same way, by means of minute spores.

It you take an ordinary mushroom and lay it on a piece of paper when it is ripe, an impalpable powder will drop from it on to the paper. These are the mushroom spores. These, when submitted to suitable conditions, warmth, moisture and, preferably, darkness, will grow. In fact the requisite conditions are very much the same as required to germinate grain. Therefore the first thing to be done in order to preserve timber is to exclude these spores, and if you succeed in doing so it will not rot or decay. I will assume that the spores are not in the wood when it is cut. That being the case, if it can be completely covered in such a manner as to prevent these minute particles or spores from gaining access to it, then it will be preserved indefinitely from rot. If the spores are in the wood when cut they can be destroyed by exposure to a sufficiently high temperature, and then the entrance of other spores can be prevented in the way I have already stated. The spores may also be killed by applying anything that will poison them, and various antiseptic solutions have that effect. The spores have a very considerable resistance to deleterious agents ; they may be frozen, dried up, and so on, and still will come to life again, but they can be destroyed by heat and by many antiseptic solutions, such as corrosive sublimate, creosote, etc.

In order to protect wood, if it can be covered over with a substance which does not afford nourishment for these spores, and which they cannot penetrate, it may be preserved. Now oils and fats have long been regarded as preservative, in this way. It is found that oils vary very much with regard to their behavior when spread in a film over any surface. Some oils are practically unchanged, others become changed into a hard, somewhat elastic, insoluble substance something like India rubber or leather. These oils are known as drying oils, and of these drying oils the one which shows those characteristics in the most marked degree is linseed oil, while olive oil may be taken as an example of the other class. Here is some olive oil and some linseed oil which have been spread on pieces of glass and exposed to the air at a temperature not far removed from that of boiling water. That temperature was adopted simply to accelerate the drying process, the result is better obtained by exposing them to the ordinary temperature. You will notice in these specimens that the olive oil is unchanged, it is just exactly as it was when placed on the glass, while the linseed oil has become a hard and firm film or coating on the glass. That is the way in which drying oils behave, and it is that which gives them their value as protective. Oils when fresh are very soluble in ether, for example, but after drying the drying oils become insoluble in ether, while the non—drying oils have their solubility unchanged, so that the nature of the oil is profoundly affected by the drying process. The film is elastic and resists moisture, and therefore anything which is coated over with this film cannot be effected by moisture.

Now I pointed out that drying up would not destroy the mushroom spores, but so long as they are kept dry they will not grow, so even if they are present in the wood they will not grow so long as they are kept dried up. This film therefore serves a double purpose ; it forms a waterproof coating for the wood, and prevents the entry of the spores from without. Of course if the wood is moist when the paint is put on, it will keep it

moist, but if the wood is dry it will keep it dry. Now, what I propose to discuss is, what is it that

causes this difference in the behavior of drying and non-drying oils, so far as they are known to science, which is only in part. The first point is that the change is due to oxidation ; the drying oils oxidize when exposed to the air, while the non drying oils do not. This

can be shown in various ways. For instance, if they are kept at an ordinary temperature for some days in thin films like this, these drying oils increase in weight, and the others do not. You know that certain oils when exposed on a large surface to the air will combine with the oxygen of the air so vigorously that they catch fire. For this reason it is well known that greasy cotton waste frequently becomes a dangerous element. The reason for that is that the cotton waste is saturated with it and a very large surface exposed to the air, and the oxidization produces heat which ultimately sets fire to the oil. Drying oils are very much more likely to ignite under these conditions than non-driving oils. Experimentalists have found that by taking cotton waste and soaking wit h non—drying oil, and heating it to a little below boiling water it may be made to take fire in an hour, while drying oil would not take fire under those circumstances until after being very much longer exposed to the heat. It has also been found that this oxidation of oils can be hastened by blowing air through them, and it is by raising the temperature. For instance, if oil is heated to 1 30 C and a current of air passed through it, it undergoes changes which make it dry much more quickly. In what is called "boiling" oil, oil is heated to 130 C and over, and a certain portion of the oil is decomposed, and the resulting product will dry very much more quickly than raw oil. Then, again, it is known that certain substances when they are mixed with oil, either during the boiling or afterwards, have the property of hastening the drying very much. These substances are called dryers. Some of these substances are black oxide of manganese, red lead, lethargy, oxide of lead, these assist very much in drying the oil. Oxide of manganese is well known to be a substance which gives off oxygen very readily, and red lead also gives up oxygen.

Professor Ellis then, using the blackboard, gave a number of chemical formulae illustrating the action of the various drying substances in connection with oil.

Proceeding, he said, '' Now it is a well known fact drying in paints depends not only on the oils, but the different colors exercise considerable effect upon the oil. Of course it is easy to see how red or white led would hasten the drying process, because we have seen how that it is effected with the oil. White lead is known to dry well, and it probably undergoes some similar change, and it probably forms the same kind of oxide that red lead does. I asked Mr. Elliott the other day to give me a list of the colors that dried well. The quick drying ones are yellow ochre, chrome green, zinc white, white lead and sienna. The slow drying colors are lamp black, madder, Prussian blue, lakes, carmine, and with these latter Mr. Elliott told me it was necessary to add dryers in order to make them dry, The colors which dry well are almost all mineral oxides, while those that dry slowly are organic compounds. They have a tendency in chemical reaction to take away the oxygen, and therefore it appears that these colors hinder the oxidization in that way, while mineral colors assist them."

The President inquired if color were no object, would oil alone be better?

Prof. Ellis replied that it would not.

The President further inquired whether if a mixture is to be made, red lead was the best thing to use with the oil.

Professor Ellis said that probably some substance mixed with the oil would make a better covering than the oil alone, but he was not prepared to say that red lead was the best substance, because it was desirable that the substance used when once dry should be as unchangeable as possible, and lead was certainly not such a substance. Oxides of iron, such as ochre, were

