<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



applied to agreements which are in their terms incapable of being performed within a year, and that there was nothing in the nature of the case before them to prevent the plaintiff marrying the next day. An architect, therefore, who is retained to superintend work which may be completed within the year, Need not concern himself to have his retainer reduced to writing, but if by the terms of his agreement or from the nature of the work, his services at-c required for more than a year, he will not he able to recover his fees by action, unless the agreement upon which action shall he brought, or some memorandum or note thereof; shall he in writing and signed by the party to be charged there without some other person thereunto by him law fully authorize d

The other are in which writing is necessary is that of contract with a corporation It is a rule of the Common Law that a body corporate is not bound by any contra which is not under its corporate seal There are two exceptions to this rule which I shall mention for the sake of completeness although they are not likely to concern architects Contracts with corporations in trivial matters of daily and pressing urgency need not be in writing or under seal, as for instance. , the employment. of servants, and secondly, in matters which arc necessary and incidental to the express purposes for which incorporation was granted particularly in the case of trading corporations

To what extent corporations may plead the absence of a contract under seal, when sited for work or serve ice which they have ordered and accepted is still a moot point, dud was discussed in the Supreme Court as recently as the year 1891 , with a very decided difference of opinion Suffice it to say that in this province, the leaning, if not the law is to hold corporations liable in such cases, but in England very eminent judges have expressed a contrary opinion Under these circumstances it is but a wise precaution, to see in all cases of agreements with corporations, that the contract is reduced to writing and sealed.



but this is not the only question to he considered in making agreements with these bodies. We must enquire also whether the proposed contract conies within the scope of their powers because if ultra wires, no recovery can be had against them not with standing that the contract is in writing and under seal, and the corporation has obtained the benefit of the work or services contracted for. To hold otherwise would be a virtual fraud on the shareholders who have subscribed on the faith of the corporation continuing itself to the purposes for which it was created. If a company is incorporated for the manufacture of bicycles, it would he manifestly wrong to stiffer its funds to he diverted to the operation of a railway.

In contracts with municipal corporations a still further precaution is necessary, for it has been decided that under the Ontario Municipal Act, contracts which have not been carried out, or to use more technical words, executory contracts, can not be enforced unless a by-law has been passed authorizing the contract, even though the seal has been affixed tinder a resolution of the Council. It would appear, therefore, to he necessary, when dealing with a municipal corporation, that an architect should not merely see that his agreement is under the corporate seal, but that a by—law has been duly passed authorizing the contract with him.

Before passing from this part of the subject, I shall quote the words of Baron Martin, Persons dealing with those companies should always bear in mind that such companies arc corporations, bodies essentially different from an ordinary partnership or firm, for all purposes of contract, and especially in respect of evidence against them on legal trials, and should insist upon these contracts being by deed under the seal of the company XXXXX There is no safety or security for anyone dealing with a body upon any other footing. The same observation also applies in respect of any variation or alteration in a contract which has been made."

These words apply with almost quail force to contracts with individuals, and should be borne in mind by every architect who, whether from delicacy or carelessness neglects to have the agreement with his client reduced to writing, not merely to avoid lawsuits, but as a safe—guard against the misunderstanding which must almost inevitably arise, where the evidence on which contracts are to be established consists of loose and disconnected conversations between persons who are acting under possibly different assumptions.

These remarks are also a suitable prelude to the next question to be considered, as the difficulties which occur arise almost wholly front a failure to observe this necessary but generally neglected precaution. The question I allude to is, the architect's right to payment for his services, and here the difficulties we meet are great, but they arise not from an doubt as to the rules of law applicable, but from the difficulty of applying the rules to the vague and uncertain terms in which the parties are wont to make their agreements. W hen we remember that it is an almost daily occurrence to find the most conscientious men giving totally interference Versions of the same conversation or event, it need he no surprise to us if contracts for services which are to he arrived at from a few casual words are difficult to ascertain with precision, especially when it is possible that one of the parties may have been quite content to leave his liability to inference, for the possible advantage he may titussubse queenly hope to obtain. I refer, of course only to verbal agreements; where the contract is reduced to writing, it is only a matter of construction. It will he well before proceeding to lay down the rules of law which have been formulated in regard to contracts of the nature of those which we are discussing. They are as follows

(1). No payment can be demanded for services rendered without request.

(2). If a person employs the services of another, without mention of payment, in matters for which payment is ordinarily expected, he impliedly undertakes to pay a reasonable sum.

(3). Where something is to he done as a condition precedent to a completed contract, no contractual rights or obligations arise until the condition is fulfilled.

(4). No claim can be based on set-vices offered by way of tender, and no obligation arises on a call for services of a like nature.

These propositions you will say are sufficiently obvious, and as general propositions they no doubt are. The difficulty lies in their application. First, no payment can be demanded for services rendered without request. An architect calls on a gentleman who he hears contemplates building, and asks if lie may prepare plans for him. The architect spends match tune and trouble and has special interviews with his client, who suggests alterations and evinces the interest usually shown in work done at ones expertise but oil submitting the completed work, the architect learns to his chagrin, that his expected client has abandoned the title of building- The latter wears that he had no idea that he was incurring liability and t the architect is equally emphatic that lie had no intention of working for nothing Under these facts, it is left to the jury to say whether there is a contract Or whether it was a gratuitous offer of his services on the part of the architect without any request and if they conclude it is the latter, no payment came he recovered Architects would do well to remember that juries are alit to hold the views of the general public in regard to sketches and plans that they are run off without any cost of time thought, or trouble and are of so small account in the eyes of their makers, that if not used they do not expect to he paid tot them a view for which architects have in some themselves to blame, by reason of their readiness to tender their services in much the same manner as I have attempted to show How then, is this danger to be avoided a danger which is peculiarly incident to requests for plans ? Simply by giving your client to understand that lie is incurring liability. Leave nothing to inference and take nothing for gratitude.

The second proposition which I have laid down is, If a person employs the services of another, without mention of payment, in matters for which payment is ordinarily expected, lie impliedly undertakes to pay a reasonable sum

The only point here which needs comment is the meaning to he attached to reasonable sum This expression means neither 7  nor 5, nor any other percentage, hut such a sum as a jury can he induced to think the work reasonably worth Of course other architects may be called as experts, to give evidence as to the charges usually made for the work in question, but no custom could be proved that a certain percentage of the contract price of the building us the sum payable for the plans amid another percentage form superintending. It may not be amiss to insert here a few words of caution on the question of customs, because I know that many of the architect's most cherished contentions are based on alleged customs It is an undeniable rule that a custom or usage becomes a part of every contract, whether verbal or written to which it is applicable, unless expressly excluded by the terms of the agreement But a custom must be both certain and reasonable, and an unacknowledged one is by no means easy of proof In cases of doubt it is a far safer plan to express the terms which arc sought to he relied on as a custom rather than to rely on what laymen are often apt to call customs, where no custom us. As was said on onto occasion by Lord Dennian, ''What can be more difficult that to ascertain as a matter of fact, such a prevalence of what is called a custom of trade, as to justify a verdict that it forms part of every contact.



My third proposition is, Where something is to be dome as a condition precedent to a completed contract, no contractual rights or obligations arise until the condition is fulfilled." The difficulty here is again one of application ; the whole point to determine being do the words used amount to a condition precedent. The chief, if not time only application of the rule, of interest to Architects, arises where plans are called for, to be submitted for the approval of the owner This is a matter of excerdaw occurrence in fact are

 plaits are submitted for approval but if the approval is a condition precedent, there can be tin recovery without the approval, must matter how unreasonable the refusal might be, provided it is based on an exercise of judgment, and not the outcome of mere caprice. But if, on the other hand there is an order for plans, although subject to the owners approval, (in the semis that you all not compel him to build a house of which he does not approve design), in this case the own will have to pay a proper sum for the work amid services, even if he reject the plans, provided they are such as a reasonable man ought to accept upon the instructions given

In the easy which establishes this rule, the wording of the agreement was that the architect should prepare the necessary probationary drawings for the approval of the committee of Wasino and thus was held to mean drawings which shall he approved of be the Committee and that flue plans were not to he paid tot unless approved of so as to become useful amid available to the country

If, them tore trusting to your own ability to please amid to your client's honor, you emitter into an agreement to supply probationary drawings which shall be approved of by him, you may have all your work for nothing if you fail, amid are liable to be dismissed if you do not succeed in a reasonable time It must, however, be added that doubtful expressions will not lie construed as conditions precedent, and the omits will he on the defendant to establish

it.	The ordinary instructions therefore, for plans will not come within the rule, but rather within the second rule, that where work is done at the request of another if no mention is made of payment he impliedly undertakes to pay a reasonable summit. There us an American case which aptly misunderstands both the point we are discussing amid the question of remuneration.

The plaintiffs sited for $170 being 130361f their own estimates. I quote the following expressions from the judgement Plaintiffs'

