<doctype type="text">the oil, the longer it had been allowed to stand, the more turpentine would be required to make it workable. The only object of turpentine was to make the paint flow, and where an excess of it was necessary for that purpose it was deleterious to the paint. He would like to know if Prof. Ellis would recommend ochre and oil as priming the ochre to take the place of the commonly used red lead.

Mr. Aylsworth said he had gathered from what Prof. Ellis had said that ochre would be better than anything else for priming. In regard to the seasoning of timber his opinion was that kiln drying opened the pores of the wood more than the ordinary seasoning, and that when taken out of a kiln and put in a building it absorbed moisture. He believed this might be obviated if it were possible to lay floors in rooms already finished and warm. He knew of one instance where that had been done, and the floor was tight. Of course that was not practicable in the case of putting in flooring in a new building, where it would absorb moisture. He had heard carpenters say that they had made floors from green lumber cramped up tight, and that they would not open up as much as when made of kiln dried 1 Limber.

Mr. Pearson asked if the pigment in paint did not assist as a preservative? In regard to the use of turpentine in paint, he had always had the impression that it produced blistering.

Prof. Ellis, replying to the questions which had been asked, said that what he had suggested was that there was more chemical union with red lead than with ochre, which caused it to dry faster, but which was the best paint he would not undertake to say. In regard to the blistering of paint, that was probably produced by the evaporation of the turpentine. In regard to the matter which had been discussed about the shrinkage of wood, especially the instance where the timbers had been taken from an old church and sawed up, he would suggest the possibility that wood which had been dry for a number of years was in a condition of strain, and when cut up yielded to it. He thought it probable that the effects referred to were due to some such cause as that rather than from any further change in the drying of the wood.

Mr. Gordon said he was sure all had been greatly interested and instructed by Prof. Ellis's address and the resulting discussion, and moved a vote of thanks to Prof. Ellis.

Mr. Dick had great pleasure in seconding the motion, which was carried.

Professor Wright then gave a talk on the Aspect Compass, illustrated by examples and diagrams, which excited much interest, and for which a vote of thanks was tendered him.

Mr. H. B. Gordon then read the following paper:

<article title=" MUNICIPAL BUILDING LAWS " author="">

MUNICIPAL BUILDING LAWS.



The necessity for wise municipal building laws, efficiently administered, is evident to all who take an intelligent interest in building operations. Unfortunately, the enactment of such laws is generally delayed until gross evils are so multiplied that their efficiency is greatly impaired unless they can be made retroactive. Usually nothing in the way of sanitary supervision is attempted until long after a system of sewerage and water service has been in operation. Meanwhile many property owners ignorantly or unwittingly install in their buildings much that forms an unsanitary menace to the occupants and their neighbors. Generally, not until a severe fire has swept the central portion of some town, does it occur to its ruling authorities that some sort of building restrictions would be a general benefit. Possibly not till after the collapse of some building and the consequent loss of life, is the public conscience so awakened as to enact that the greed of speculators and the ignorance of architectural tyros must be subordinated to the safety of the people.

Very rarely, if ever, does the aesthetic sense of the voting public or their representatives, run the extravagant length of deciding that the nonarchitectural rnonstrosities proposed for the adornment of their streets,

29







might be the better of a little intelligent revision by a competent public officer.

It therefore rests very largely with the members of this profession to impress upon the public the necessity for such laws ; to urge their adoption in all our towns and villages to seek their improvement where now existing to loyally respect their requirements and cordially co-operate in their enforcement.

Architects should remember that their natural desire for a free hand for themselves necessarily implies a free hand also for the speculator and Jerry builder. Desirable building restrictions will not in any way hamper the operations of a true architect. The existence of wholesome regulations should be of great help to the profession in dealing with niggardly or unscrupulous clients. And no true man should want to override or set aside a law for the general good.

The scope of municipal building laws may be roughly divided into four branches, viz.

1st, The safe constructional requirements.

2nd, The necessary sanitary restrictions.

3rd, Provisions against the spread of fire.

4th, Public aesthetic problems.

Some portions of such laws should be universal throughout the province others must necessarily be determined by local conditions. A law or laws compelling the adoption of some of the general principles of safe construction should be provincial and general. The size and character of foundations to buildings, and the weights with which various soils may safely be loaded, is as applicable to the village as the metropolis. The thickness of walls in relation to their height and the weight of floors to be carried, is as necessary for the safety of life in the mill in the country as in the warehouse in the city. The safe load that may be imposed upon a beam or a joist does not vary with its urban or suburban position. The support to a superincumbent shop front is as important a problem in the village street as it is elsewhere. Indeed the necessity for some clearly defined building laws for small municipalities appears to be even more urgent than for larger places. In the former, the work is generally planned by those who lack theoretical knowledge of the strength of materials and the equilibrium of forces.

Fortunately there is a growing tendency in the smaller places towards the employment of trained men in the designing of their more important structures. But who that has observed the waste of materials on the one hand and the perilous experiments of skimping on the other, can fail to foresee the advantages of some plain general enactments that will guide and control all building.

Such a general law might well include the following, viz. A statement of the safe sustaining power per sq. ft. of the various kinds of soil an outline of the correct method of forming footings ; a description of what must form the necessary kind of foundation walls, piers or posts under the various classes of buildings ; the thickness and character of external and sustaining walls and piers the strength of floor joists and beams ; the sizes, kind and position of posts and beams carrying floors or walls ; needful provision against wind pressure on high roofs, and other items of general safe provision; regulations for the repair or removal of dangerous buildings general tables stating authoritatively the compressive and transverse strength of the commoner building materials and the factors of safety to be adopted in their use.

There might also be a general classification of buildings according to their purpose and use, with special requirements adapted to each class ; for example, churches and places of public amusement should be required to have ample provision for exit, and the stairs and passages proportioned to the audience. The floors of mills, stores arid warehouses should be proportioned to carry much heavier loads than other structures. Provision against vibration in factories should be demanded. Regulations for the size and position of stairs in hotels and factories should be provided. Also general conditions to be observed in all buildings of certain classes that exceed a minimum height.

