23

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	



theory seems to have been that by employing an architect to make drawings which are not finally determined on, and asking his opinion of probable cost, the employer is bound to pay a percentage on a building such as the architect sees fit to figure out, and at a price which he puts upon its probable cost.''

This seems to us an idea which has no foundation iii law or common sense and unless such a basis of compensation was

specially agreed on, it cannot he allowed.

There is some reason for chiming that if man is employed to make preliminary sketches to enable a landowner to determine what sort of building he may profitable erect in what style and of what material it should be built, he should not do the work without reward, provided such is the understanding If, however, as the defendant here claimed the architect volunteered his services with the chances of future employment it would he different. But it cannot he held it in either case, such preliminary work can he measured by estimates of the cost of the architects projected building. The only claim plaintiffs could have would he for such time as was actually spent in then work, with the fair understanding that they should he Paid for so much as they did, or with such circumstances as would compel defendant to the duty of so understanding but not of architects can he received to fix it on any such basis as is set up.

It is worthy of note that the judge in this case apparently thought that it was the duty of the architect to see that his client had a fair understanding that the architect expected to he paid or that the facts must be such as to compel him so to understand.

As to the fourth proposition that I have laid down namely, That no claim can he based on services offered by way of tender, nor does any obligation arise on a call for services of a like nature, little more need be said than to illustrate my meaning. If an architect offers, even though at the request of the owner to pre pare drawings on the chance of obtaining the work of superintending the proposed building he can maintain no action for payment unless his plans are. This is quite apart from the question of approval. In fact, although quite satisfied with the drawings the owner may abandon the idea of building without incurring liability, and a public advertisement for drawings of such a nature imposes no obligation to accept an','.

How fine the dividing line sometimes is between an order for work and a mere tender may he seen from a case in Lower Canada in which the architect succeeded. Drawings were invited for a church, not to exceed a fixed sum on the condition that the unsuccessful competitors should receive a certain premium, but the architect whose plans were selected was to receive no premium, but to obtain the work of superintending the building. The plaintiffs plans were approved, but it subsequently appeared that they did not comply with the conditions and were ejected. This would appear to some as near as possible to a case of tender in the hope of being retained if the plans were approved, but the court held that the architect as entitled to recover and allowed him one per cent. of the limited cost of the proposed building.

I fear I have dwelt on this subject t of contract no contract so long as to he tedious. I shall dismiss it with this one remark although the general proposition that a man is entitled to be paid for his services is admitted the resumes to he an inclination to regard architects drawings as always tentative offers in the absence of definite evidence to the contrary, thus throwing the onus on him of establishing a contract, as shown by the American case which I have cited

It is a relief to leave the shifting sands in which we have been endeavoring to pick our steps. Where the parties themselves were not quite stir of their intentions, and have left so much to inference, a lawyer's conclusion on a case submitted to him is likely to be preceded by a series of ''ifs "—if your contract means so—and—so, then this is the law if your agreement were otherwise, then the law is otherwise and if a law suit follows and there is, (as is sure to he the case), a conflict of evidence, the verdict satisfies no one, and judge, jury, and lawyers all fall into the same condemnation. Be advised therefore, and do not fail, either from feelings of delicacy or from confidence in your own powers to give satisfaction or in your employers honor, to have the terms of your agreement reduced to writing ; and if the nature of the case is such as to render a formal agreement unnecessary or ill-judged, at any rate write your client a letter, setting forth your understanding of the arrangement, and if he acquiesces, you have a written agreement; and if he does not expressly do so, his silence will he strong evidence of his approval.

There is another point in the making of these contracts in regard to which architects would do well to he wary, I mean iii assuming the duty of drawing the contracts between owner and contractors. There is no authority on the subject, but it may safely he assumed that it is no part of the architect's duty, and I am confident that no such custom should he proved. If, therefore, the architect undertakes to draw the contract, whether by or without the request of his client, he assumes work for which he is not paid, unless by special agreement that he should he paid extra. While, however, it is true that in so doing without payment he assumes no great responsibility, being liable probably only for gross negligence, yet if he paid for it he will he bound to exercise reasonable skill and will be held to a strict account, and that too for work which is not within his province. And it must not he forgotten that the contention that he has not been paid for drawing the contracts would probably he met by the con— elusive answer that having undertaken the work, payment is included in the fees.

If, however, at the request of your client, who may be unwilling to incur the expense of employing a solicitor, you agree to draw the contracts, allow me to offer a practical suggestion—see that the contractor reads and understands his contract, otherwise you

may find yourself in the unenviable position of being obliged to act as the task master of an unscrupulous man who has no compunction in holding an unfortunate contractor to harsh conditions which he has probably signed without reading. A good instance of this sort of thing is to he found in the case of Jones v. St. John's College, Oxford, In that case the builders undertook to erect and complete a building by a certain fixed day and to execute such alterations as the clerk of the works might order within the time limited for the completion of the contract unless an extension of time were allowed and in default to pay a fixed sum per day. The builders neglected to obtain an extension. The clerk of the works ordered alterations which it was impossible to complete within the time agreed, in fact the work was not finished until some time after. The owners insisted on the exactions of their penalties and the unhappy builder was mulcted in a large sum.

I come now to a question which has always been a sore point with architects. Where plans have been prepared, and the architect's fees paid butt the architect is not retained to superintend the building ; in the absence of agreement, to whom do the plans belong? This precise point has never been expressly decided. The architect says they are his, and relies upon an alleged custom among architects, that in the absence of other agreement the plans remain the property of the architect. Where the building goes on and is completed under the same architect, little if any difficulty is likely to occur in practice, as the architect gets his full remuneration. The trouble arises when the client by claiming the plans without building, is in effect getting the benefit of the architect's work and knowledge for a much smaller fee than the latter would demand if he had anticipated the result. However, it seems front a case decided in England some years ago, as if the architect's view is not likely to he taken when the question comes tip for decision. In the case I refer to, the owner after the completion of the plaits determined not to go on wit h the building, and asked t he architect to send in his account amid the plans. He refused, however, to give up the plans, setting tip an alleged custom among architects, that in the event of an employment of the architect being stopped, he was entitled to he paid for the plans and to retain them. The learned judges in discussing whether such a usage would be reasonable, even supposing it was properly proved, used some pretty strong language ; one of them said that: ''It appeared contrary to reason, good sense and justice, that in the event of a contract being putt an cud to, the architect should retain the plan for which he was entitled to he paid ; it would require at least a clearly expressed stipulation in the contract to enable him to do so The defendant was perfectly justified in refusing to pay until he had time plans, The execution of and the plaits themselves formed the work and labor for which he charged the defendant, who was entitled to them if lie had to pay for them.''

Another judge was even stronger. In his opinion the usage contended for was impossible ; he could not help saying that it was perfectly suicidal ; so soon as it was brought into being it cut its throat with its own absurdity. "In all common sense," he exclaims, "a man is entitled to what he is compelled to pay for." Before usage could be insisted on, it must be prevail to he one well known to prevail. It required the most rigid proof that it actually existed.

I have cited this case somewhat at length, by way of illustrating what I have already said as to the difficulty of proving an alleged custom, and also to show the strong leaning of the Court against this custom in particular; and although, as you will notice, this case does not actually decide the point as to the ownership of the plans, it must he admitted that it trenches very strongly on the architect's position. What it does actually decide is that when an architect agrees to prepare plans and to superintend the erection of a building for which he is to receive a certain percentage in respect of the plans and a certain percentage for the superintendence, if the owner, not having bound himself to build, abandons his intention after the preparation of the plans, the architect cannot rd-cover his charges for the plans without delivering them to his client. Whether the latter can subsequently use them, and in so doing employ another architect, was not decided. To do se would

probably have been a violation of his agreement to employ the plaintiff, fur which he would he liable in damages. As far as we can judge from the report, he haul entirely abandoned the idea of building. But I do not think that the judges meant so to restrict the effect of their judgment. If so. why the immigration at the architect's contention? If they thought that all the defendant was entitled to was the barren possession of the plans, the emphatic language with which they denounce the architect's

refusal to grant so useless a privilege was out of place. They sent to have been clearly of the opinion that the defendant bad bought the plans out and out. Perhaps if the architect had been able to put aside the agreement and sue for a quantum merit, as it is called, that is to say, for a reasonable amount for the time and trouble spent in the preparation of the plans, the result might have been different. however this may be, the broad proposition asserted by architects, that in no case do the plans become the property of the client, seems untenable. It has the appearance of an artificial endeavor to get over a difficulty to which they are liable from the very nature of the case. No doubt it is a hardship that your work should he used by others than those who pay for it, or for other purposes than you originally intended, hut it is a hardship to which other professions are also liable. If I employ a celebrated painter to execute an order for me, it would he absurd to contend that the only right I possess in the picture is the right of enjoyment. The truth is that the painter is surrounded by the natural protection arising front the fact that the painting is his production and his only, and no copy can he the same thing. But a copy of an architect's plans are quite as effectual as the original, and being deprived of this natural defense, he is driven to assert a claim which in the other ease is admitted to he absurd. Nor is the illustration weakened by the fact that the Legislature has seen fit to afford further protection to pictures and other such works of art, by copyright. This merely serves to show that the hardship which is admitted to exist can only he remedied by legislation, and not by the assertion of a custom, which is apt to ignore the fact that

