<doctype type="text">

the stated time. In conversation with the solicitor for one of the railways, that gentleman had suggested as a better way of arranging it that the builder should receive a certain sum if the building was erected at a certain date, if not completed by a certain later date also specified, a smaller sum, thus REDUCING the amount to be received by him as the time was prolonged. He would like to hear a little discussion on that point.

Mr. Wickson wished to know to what extent an architect was supposed to keep track of this matter. If a client goes to the architect and inquires whose fault it is that the work is behind, the architect may say it is none of his business to know. To whom can the client look? It was his own practice to keep a diary, making note of the progress of the various works almost every day, and he had given a client who made such inquiries a copy of that as nearly as he could. The client afterwards told him it was the most non—committal letter he ever got, but he did not know that he had a right to give him even that information. It was always a very awkward matter to say just who was behind.

The President said he thought the best way was to leave the drawing up of the contracts in the hands of lawyers, because the architect had quite enough responsibility without that.

Mr. Baker had found the bonus system to work well, generally resulting in getting the work through in good time.

Mr. Burke said the difficulty was where there were different contractors for the various trades to locate the blame for delays ; he had found it almost impossible to do it.

Mr. Langton said an architect very often found himself bound to carry out what was really an injustice. Where a man had a time contract to carry through, and he was thrown out of his arrangements by delay on the part of those who had preceded him he could no longer do it for the same money, and might very justly say,

I cannot afford to do this work as quickly now as I could before."

Mr. Wickson said he had mentioned that very point to a client, and the client's reply was, '' The man should not have been such a fool as to sign the contract."

M r. Wickson's resolution regarding the printing and distribution of the President's address was then carried, after which the meeting adjourned until Wednesday morning.



<article title=" SECOND DAY " author="">

SECOND DAY.

The proceedings of the Convention were resumed at

o'clock, by Mr. W. A. Langton reading some Notes of an Architectural Tour in England and France."

Mr. Langton's paper which was illustrated in a very interesting and instructive manner by stereopticon views of the examples referred to, was received with much interest, and called forth very hearty expressions of approval.

Mr. Townsend opened the discussion by saying that he thought the lesson inculcated by Mr. Langton s address was, that there should be on the part of the architect less striving after originality in order to show what he could do, more common sense building and less architecture. He thought that applied more to residence designs than anything else. The speaker had told them what probably many of them had noticed, that in London and Paris the best work was that which was simply the outcome of an intelligent appreciation of and supplying of what was needed in each case. For instance, the building by Mr. Norman Shaw which had been illustrated was simply a square building which, while preserving good proportions throughout, placed the rooms and windows where the proprietor wanted them. Other buildings in which a great effort at display was attempted they had been told were not successful, and he thought that would always be found the case.

Mr. A. E. Paul1 expressed his gratification at the manner in which Mr. Langton had handled his subject,

and suggested that if on a future holiday trip Mr. Langton could visit Vienna, where he thought greater strides had been made than in either London or Paris during the last generation, and at a future meeting of the Association give them the results of his observations there in a similar form, it would be highly instructive and beneficial. It was said that Vienna had more valuable architecture than any other capital in Europe. He had very great pleasure in proposing a vote of thanks to Mr. Langton for his very valuable contribution.

Mr. Townsend, in seconding Mr. Paull's motion, remarked that the members of the Association ought to endeavor to impress the lesson of Mr. Langton's paper upon their clients in residence work ; he thought if they could be induced to take into consideration the value of the court it would have a very beneficial effect.

The President, in closing the discussion, said one of the principal lessons to be learned was the cultivation of a feeling of restraint among designers, and a sense that every other man had some rights which ought to be respected. It would be impossible to have a street satisfactory from an architectural point of view if every man insisted upon building as if his was the only house upon that street. New York was said to possess some fearful examples of the disregard of this principle; charming residences were found standing between two monstrosities. Abroad the cornice lines and the main lines were run as far as possible in accord with those on either side of them. He was aware that the problem was surrounded by very great difficulties but at least an effort should be made in the desired direction. Mr. Langton had said that what most impressed him in Paris was the prevailing color. Owing to that feature the individual house was lost sight of, it was the whole street that gave the impression. Here it was unfortunately the case that even where two buildings side by side were being erected at the same time men would not take the trouble to inspect each other's work, or find out what the other man was going to do. lie advocated the casting away of all little, petty jealousies, and a united effort to promote a more uniform style of building.

The vote of thanks to Mr. Langton was then carried unanimously.

A paper was then read by Mr. Andrew Bell, of Almonte, on Building Stones of Eastern Ontario.''

Mr. Bell's paper was followed by an adjournment to an adjoining room, where samples of the various kinds of stone were inspected, and conversation indulged in by the members regarding them in relation to Mr. Bell's ad dress.

Mr. W. R. Gregg, seconded by Mr. Belcher, moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Bell, which was carried.

The Convention then adjourned for luncheon, which was served in the building.

AFTERNOON Session.

<article title=" AFTERNOON Session " author="">

In the afternoon the first number of the Agenda was a paper by Professor Ellis, on '' The Chemistry of Paints.''

Professor Ellis's contribution was not committed to writing, but he spoke as follows

Being practical men, the members of this Association will expect me to treat of the practical rather than the aesthetic side of this subject, which, however, is one that lends itself readily to treatment from either point of view, because paints are decorative and protective. It is from the protective point of view I am going to speak. Of course, when you change your point of view, the whole subject in this respect is entirely changed, because from the decorative point of view the pigment is everything, while from the protective standpoint the oil is everything, and the pigment is of no importance except in so far as it hastens or retards the process of drying.

lt. will of course be understood that my remarks must of necessity be of a general character. The use of paints as a protective arises in this way. The cause of decay we w ill speak of (because we know it is to timber that paint is most commonly applied) is the growth of mushrooms in the timber. Now, we know that when a man wants to grow mushrooms he first

