<doctype type="text">

FLYING SHORES AND BUTTRESSES.

communicated

<article title=" FLYING SHORES AND BUTTRESSES " author="">

THE present condition of t he architectural profession may be briefly and prosaically stated thus: it comprises all those men who design and superintend buildings and a large number of others whose business consists in the ordinary transactions with reference to house property and valuations. In fact, the field is so varied and extensive, as though the knowledge necessary to befit an architect was only of secondary importance, and left the holder of this title ample time for study and the practice of other businesses and professions that are in a measure connected with it, that we find many styling themselves architects, valuators, civil engineers, sanitary and ventilating engineers, etc. Architecture is a profession that can hold its own without the support of all these flying shores and buttresses. lt. has always appeared to us to be a feeble method to adopt to strengthen their position and to ensnare the unwary client with these high sounding and empty titles.

Upon what ground do these men lay claim to these titles ? There is no law in the land to prevent a tinker claiming that he is a ventilating engineer as far as that goes, but an architect, if he is an architect, has made a study of it, and is supposed to have some knowledge of these branches of the building trade with which he has to deal. He cannot serve God and mammon." If a man is an architect he is but a poor civil engineer, and vice versa. Surely if a man wants to employ an architect, he will go to an architect if a civil engineer, to a civil engineer---not to a weak admixture of both.

Apart from the time and study necessary to obtain any degree of competency in either profession, art in architecture and art in engineering, although they are both ultimately striving for the same goal, have each to make concessions one to the other before the happy combination may be reached; and this result will never be obtained by these half-masters of both and master of none.

There are monopolists in commercial life, and some of these monopolists have proved successful, but we fear these aping professional monopolists will fall to the ground between so many stools.

There is one other buttress that occurs to us, that these professional monopolists have overlooked ; Why not Architect and Solicitor? There would be just as much sense in assuming this as in assuming the others for in the practice of the profession legal difficulties sometimes occur questions of boundaries, of ancient lights rights of way of conditions of contract, and of many other kinds possible present themselves. We make no question but that this buttress would also have been seized upon had it not been that the law is a close profession.

What are the duties of an architect, that these gifted individuals have mastered and found time to study and make themselves expert in other professions? In judgment he is expected to be a better mason than a man who has spent all his life in working stone, a better carpenter than a man who has handled lumber all his days, a better plumber, a better plasterer, a better painter, a better glazier, etc., than anybody who has devoted his life to any one of these particular trades. This is only a small part of what the public looks for and expects from an architect. He might be proficient in all these branches and yet be no architect at all, for his primary business as an architect is not merely to k now, but to place, to invent, to adapt, to be incessantly conquering fresh difficulties, not by lavish outlay, but economically, gracefully, and in a refined manner. That these architectural difficulties are conquered in this way is the exception rather than the rule when we take into consideration what an architect is expected to know. To-day he is called upon to build a bank and he must make himself familiar with every detail of the banking business ; next week he must make himself perfect in all the knowledge pertaining to tanning, and a month later he must enter heart and soul into the manufacture of bicycles. All this he has to do, not as a barrister has to do it, just far enough and deep enough to talk about it plausibly to convince a judge and jury, but in a way

that will stand the test of practice and of fact. His bank must be arranged so that every facility is offered to clerks and public on the most economic principles; his tannery must be capable of turning out real leather, and his bicycle factory arranged with all the latest improvements with no waste of space or labor. Then the man who builds churches or private houses has not only the practical questions of convenience to deal with, but the whole world of architecture as an art besides. When he is familiar with all trades, expert at all sorts of planning and arrangement, he is next expected to add to all this knowledge and all this skill as much artistic faculty as would by itself make the fortune of a painter and sculptor. For this artistic faculty a liberal public never dreams of paving him. It generally offers him the same percentage for building churches as for building cow—sheds, and cannot repress its astonishment when its churches are not built with the perfection it desires. It is also an imperative necessity that the style he adopt for his building should be that which every spectator prefers, since anyone who is not pleased will assuredly lay the fault on the architect's want of ability rather than on his own want of judgment.

Thc conduct of the works is equally simple, as all that is required of him is that he should be able to answer at once every question that is addressed to him and to decide definitely there and then the best mode of procedure. In his supervision of a building, all that is needed is that he should be omnipresent. Everyone who is employed feels that it is the architect's business to watch him, and if he can scamp a bit of work without detection it is on the architect the real shame and disgrace of it all will be. The architect ought to have been here and everywhere at once, and then such things could not have happened. Still the architect's duties are not yet ended. The builder's accounts still remain to be made up. Every item which he did not foresee before the agreement was signed rises up against him as an accusing extra ; every detail which he revised and re-revised to make it more perfect does the same; every day which he spent at his own cost improving points of planning and construction, does the same and now instead of being thanked for his care and thought, he is blamed for having kept the building back and running up a bill of extras. These extras must now be gone into in detail, all the deductions and additions measured up in the manner of measurement peculiar to each trade, and the architect must know to the fraction of a cent the value of each particular item, and these claims must be finally adjusted to the satisfaction of the client and contractor.

Time and space fail us to enlarge on the multifarious duties imposed on the architect, but the foregoing remarks will enable us to form some idea. As was before stated there is sufficient ground to cover in the field of architecture without monopolizing an expert knowledge with other businesses that have an indirect connection with architecture.

What argument could prove a stronger incentive to the profession at large, than this, to put forth every effort to obtain the passing of the Act when the word Architect shall have a recognized standing. Then all these flying shores and buttresses that have been found necessary to bolster up the profession may be dispensed with. The course of study then prescribed will embrace those branches of the building trade in so far as they are necessary to an architect in the exercise of his profession, and it will be then only after several years of hard work and close application and an applied test that one can assume the honorable title of Architect, and there will be no further need of this arrogating of empty titles which every Tom, Dick and Harry can assume.





The annual meeting of the Standard Drain Pipe Co., of St. Johns, Que., was held on the 13th inst. Mayor Trotter was reelected president and Capt. Counsel, vice—president



The Prismatic Glass C o of Toronto, are manufacturing a new and meritorious article for pavement lights, extension sky lights, illuminating ornamental windows, etc., particulars of which will he found in our advertisement pages. The Company have recently sold 5,000 pieces of double prism sidewalk lights, amounting to

tons of glass for use in the new Ogilvie Building Montreal.

