<doctype type="text">

Mr. Gregg said that tinder the present resolution the committee had full discretionary power to do anything of that sort which they deemed desirable.

The President thought that the committee was not restricted in its line of action, but could deal with any matter that might arise without anything further being said.

Mr. Burke suggested the advisability of tendering the assistance of the Association in improving the Island Park, in the way of giving advice.

Mr. Gregg said there was a point which was lost sight of last year, the rounding of the corners of Queen and Yonge streets. had the committee been a very active one perhaps both the corners in question might have been rounded instead of only one.

Mr. Burke pointed out that many opportunities for improvement would be lost unless someone took the initiative, as was the case in regard to one of the corners spoken of, where it was only because of the lack of interest to push the matter that the improvement was not made.

Mr. Pearson, reverting to the subject of the committee on improvements in the building by-laws, expressed himself as not quite satisfied with the report made by Mr. Gordon. He himself was left quite in a maze as to what had been done with the by—law submitted, which seemed to have been taken to the City Hall and there pigeon-holed. He would like a little further information as to what had been done in that matter.

Mr. Gordon said the city authorities had adopted parts of the by-law recommended, and had patched up the old by-law. Of course the by-law submitted by the committee was to some extent a reiteration of much that was in the then existing by—law, only put in a clearer and more concise form, and in some instances with increased stringency. He did not think the matter was by any means a dead issue, and as a result of a paper he proposed reading before the Association during its present sessions he hoped to see, not only in Toronto, but also in outside towns and villages permanent committees appointed for the purpose of having proper municipal by-laws passed.

The President said that probably the matter was lying in statu quo.

Mr. Gordon replied that that was the case to a certain extent ; it could not be expected that the suggestions made would be adopted in their entirety, because at the City Hall there were so many other things to be considered.

Mr. Pearson thought that in view of what Mr. Gordon said, it would be better to defer further discussion on the matter until he read the paper referred to.

Mr. Wickson then said that it had occurred to him when listening to the very practical address delivered by the President, that if portions of it could be printed and distributed among the members of the Legislative Assembly, it would provide them in a very concise and lucid form a view of the whole question.

The President replied that the matter of legislation was one on which he felt very strongly, and he desired to have a full discussion in regard to it.

Mr. A. E. Paull, in expressing his concurrence in Mr. Wickson's suggestion, said that the President in his address had dealt with the various matters in a very able and admirable manner, particularly in that part in which he dealt with the advantages of architectural education. If not out of place he would move that copies of the President's address be sent to every member of the Legislature.

Mr. Wickson said that a suggestion just made to him by Mr. Gregg seemed to him a good one, that a resolution be passed by the convention to the effect that in the address in question the President voiced the feeling of the Association. The resolution need not necessarily be sent to the members of the Legislature, but it would be reported in the newspapers, and they would see it there.

The President said that a great deal remained to be done before the matter could be dealt with satisfactorily The action taken in the future would have to be more systematic. In regard to the proposition made, papers

sent to the members of the Legislature were not often read, because they were overwhelmed with that kind of stuff. The best way of getting at the members was by having them personally interviewed while at their homes by the members of the Association living in their constituencies. This could not be effected unless the members of the Association took an interest in the matter and were willing to exert themselves. The volume of work to be done was not great but what was to be done was important. When members of the Legislature came down to Toronto during the session they were very busy, and had any number of men trying to get at them in the interests of various legislation, and they had neither the time nor the inclination to talk, and even when they were spoken to they were apt to soon forget all about what they had heard. But in the country an architect, knowing the member for his district, if he could get hold of him for a short time, could do more than could be effected by any amount of work in Toronto. It was the country members of the Association who must be relied on. The city members he felt sure would do all in their power, but as far as the city members of the Legislature were concerned they were favorably disposed to the objects of the association.

Mr. Wickson suggested that in addition to sending the proposed copies to the members of the Legislature they should also be sent to each member of the Association.

The President assented to that view, and suggested the formation of a small committee for the purpose of distributing this literature. There had appeared in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER from time to time articles, portions of which would be valuable, and such a committee might arrange the matter.

Mr. Townsend thought that if members of the Association living in the country would address personal letters to the members of the Legislature in their constituencies, enclosing the proposed matter, it would be more effective than if sent from a central committee in Toronto. Country members might also enlist the sympathy and influence of friends outside the profession who had influence with the members of the Legislature. Indeed, he thought there was hardly a member of the Association in the city who had not a friend somewhere outside who might favorably influence some one.

The President thought Mr. Townsend's last suggestion was a very valuable one. If there were no further suggestions he would now proceed to the appointment of the committee.

Mr. Townsend recommended that the President's address be printed and distributed without mutilation he thought selections from it were not sufficient, but that it should be sent out in full.

Mr. Burke was of the same opinion. The main object was to show that the education of the architect was the legislation aimed at, and he thought the address would form an excellent argument for the desired legislation.

The following paper was then read by Mr. Gwynne

SOME HINTS ON THE LEGAL	RELATIONS BETWEEN ARCHITECT AND OWNER.

<article title=" SOME HINTS ON THE LEGAL	RELATIONS BETWEEN ARCHITECT AND OWNER " author="Gwynne">

The first question that presents itself for consideration is the form of the contract between architect and client. Should it be reduced to writing? And the answer is, generally speaking, it need not. But there are two cases in which writing is essential. The first is where the services to be rendered are not to be completed within one year from the date of the contract. This is rendered necessary by the Statute of Frauds, an Act passed in the reign of Charles I I, which requires many classes of contract to be evidenced by writing, and was passed as the preamble states,

for prevention of many fraudulent practices which are commonly  endeavored to be upheld by perjury or subornation of perjury." The only point to he noted under this section of the Act is that the continuance of the services beyond the year must either be expressly prov ided d by the terms of the contract, or be occasioned of necessity by the nature of the work ; if it not be premiere or may 

formed the year no writing is required. There is a curious case In the early reports in illustration of this point. The defendant agreed with the plaintiff that he would give him 1,000 guineas on his wedding day, if the plaintiff would give him one guinea now. Two years afterwards the plaintiff married and claimed the

,ooo guineas. The defendant set up that the agreement not being performed within the year could not be sued on as it was not evidenced by writing. But the judges held that the statute only

