<doctype type="text">Toronto, in recognition of the need for the more thorough education of architectural students, must fail of its object, unless it is made compulsory that students shall pass qualifying examinations. In view of these and other equally good reasons which could be advanced, it is hoped that the amendments to the Ontario Architects' Act, which have been petitioned for, will be granted at the present session of the Legislature.



THERE was less business than usual The O. A. A. transacted at the Annual Conventional Convention.

the Ontario Association of Architects,



but the papers were rather more interesting than usual, and, what is more important than all, there was more evidence of fe1lowship among me members attending me meetings. In particular the portion of the programme devoted to criticism of each other's current work, exhibited by means of the stereopticon, was definite and instructive, and both given and received in a frank and friendly spirit. It is this spirit which is one of the best products of the Association as far as concerns the architects. Inventive workmen, such as artists and architects, require constant association and interchange of ideas to keep up the germinating warmth of thought that must be at the back of progress, without which Art is dead. Until the Association was formed me architects of Ontario, even in the cities, worked alone. It would be hard to return now to the old state of affairs ; nor would it be easy to estimate how much architecture in Ontario will owe to the Association for this one gain only. Any comment upon the recent convention would be incomplete without a reference to me liberal assistance to the Association of all connected with the School of Practical Science, beginning with the Minister of Education. Mr. Ross has always shown himself to be a Minister of Education in me widest sense of the term, and the formal vote of thanks to him at me close of each convention is offered not only in return for his permission to use a room of the School for that convention, but is at the bottom an acknowledgement of his promotion or countenance of many ways in which the School has extended its assistance to architects as well as to students of architecture. Professor Gaibraith, the principal of the School, not only watches over the association of his teaching staff' with the practising body, but gives valuable time in acting as Chairman of the Board of Examiners of the Association, and organizing a scientific method of examination. Mr. Wright, the Lecturer in Architecture, is the familiar friend of the Association, and his unwearying energy and dauntless enthusiasm have done more for it than a mere enumeration of his services would express. The annual conventions in particular owe much not only to his assistance, but to his suggestions. A distinguishing feature of the conventions is the Facility of illustration afforded by the electric light stereopticon of the School and me valuable collection of photographic slides of architectural subjects made by Mr. Wright and his assistant, Mr. Keele, for the use of the architectural department of the School. Some of he photographs were taken by Mr. Keele during a visit to England in the last vacation, and are valuable not only as excellent photographs but as having a subject matter chosen by an instructor in architecture. It seems to us not only a good thing for the Association :o work thus in harmony with the School, but it must also be a good thing for the staff of the School. There

is danger to all professional work in its withdrawa1 from active life and dealing with theoretical matters only. '[he college professor too often becomes dry if not inactive in the course of time. To this tendency an association such as now exists between the instructors at the School of Practical Science and the practical part of the profession is a wholesome corrective.

<article title=" BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

THE annual meeting of the Toronto Builders' Exchange was held on Monday, Jan. 20th, at their rooms,

No. 8 Victoria street. The following members were

present Messrs. Oakley & Holmes, James Crang,

Wm. Booth, John Vick, D. Williams, J. Bedford, H.

Lucas, T. Cannon & Son, John C. Goddard, William

Christie, John Connolly, A. Burnett, Wm. Pears, Jas.

Pears, Wickett Bros., Wm. Tasker, John Maloney,

Henry & Bottomley, J. J. Hain, Thos. Murray, James

Isaac, Thomson Bros., Win. McGuire, Geo. W right, J.

Knox, John Aldridge, John M. Gander, R. Chalkley,

Wm. Stewart, Wm Harris.

The election of officers for 1896 resulted as follows President, John Aldridge ; first vice-president, T. Cannon, jr.; second vice-president, John Vick ; treasurer, David Williams.

The following directors were elected: William Booth,

John Wickett James Crang, John M. Gander, George

 Henry. The auditors are Messrs. Fred Holmes and

George Clay.

The reports of the directors and auditors were presented and adopted, and votes of thanks tendered to the retiring officers. It was resolved to hold the usual annual excursion next summer, a committee being appointed to make the necessary arrangements.





LEGAL.

A CASE of interest to architects came before Judge Morson at Toronto recently, in which Mr. Hynes sued the Roman Catholic Separate School Board for $60 commission for plans furnished for a school building on Earl street. It appears Mr. Hynes was employed to draw plans for a four—roomed building, and that he submitted them when ready to the Sites and Buildings Committee, but that they were dissatisfied. He explained that he could do no better, as the appropriation was limited to 84,500. He understood that he was then authorized to make sketches for a more expensive building, and he accordingly did .so for one to cost $6,ooo, which were submitted to the Archbishop for his approval, and he asked 1 percent., the regular commission on this amount. After hearing the evidence Judge Morson held that the Building Committee had not authorized the second plans, and as Mr. Hynes had been paid $1 12.50 for the first plans, judgment was given in favor of the Board.



<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA PARLIAMENT BUILDINGS " author="">

BRITISH COLUMBIA PARLIAMENT BUILDINGS.

The exterior stone work of the main portion of the new parliament buildings at Victoria, B. C., has been completed, the last stone having been laid with great eclat a few weeks ago. The contractors, Messrs. McGregor and Jeeves, invited the members of the government and some others to be present. The Union Jack was hoisted and congratulatory speeches made. Both the architect and contractors are commended for the energy displayed and the character of the work. The last stone was laid on the dome, which towers eleven feet. Above it will be a copper covering fifty two feet

high.	___	______





Among the new industries which appear to have tome very rapidly to the front is The Mica Boiler Covering Co. They have recently completed covering all the steam pipes in the Simpson Departmental Store, Toronto, and have also in hand large contracts for the Ontario Government. Last week they were awarded the contract for steam pipe covering for the Halifax Street Ry. Co., besides obtaining considerable orders in Montreal, and in consequence are compelled to run a night shift to keep pace with their orders.

