<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	19

True, a member can be expelled for gross unprofessional conduct upon a definite charge being laid and the proper method of



procedure gone through, but that clause I take it means that the charge must he of such a nature as involves dishonest dealing towards his clients even though it is not actually punishable by law. It was certainly never intended that we were to have power to punish, expel or fine a member simply because he carries on his business in a way, innocent enough perhaps so far as the public is concerned, but which might not commend itself to the members generally as embodying the highest code of ethics.



I cannot, for the life of me, see why there is all this growling and grumbling about other men's fees. A great deal more practice of ethics and much less talk would he better for all of us. If one man chooses to charge his clients three per cent., another two—and—a—half per cent., another four, and another five, why on earth should anyone complain ? The men in question evidently think that that is what their respective work is worth. They are the best judges of its value and in that respect they are honest. I do not see, indeed, why a man should not, if he see fit, advertise that he is a three per cent. architect, or a two—and—a—half per cent. man, or a four per cent. man, anything else he thinks his work is worth ; he might put it on his letter paper or on his visiting cards or anywhere else. It is his own business ; why should anybody mind, that is, so long and only so long as he charges everybody the same. But the individual this Association ought to mind, and ought to frown down in the severest possible manner, and moreover punish (if a way can he found), is the man who adopts a sliding scale of fees for the same class of work. The man who fixes his scale of fees lower than the recognized tariff and having fixed it sticks to it is not the one most guilty of transgressing the ethics of the profession. He may be foolish, but he is honest But it is the man, who for the same class of work varies his charges, who gets out of one man five per cent., because he is a decent sort of fellow; out of another three per cent because he is a hard-fisted chap who always drives a close bargain out of another, two-and-a-half per cent., because if he charges more somebody else will get the work ; who is guilty of the grossest form of unprofessional conduct. The other man errs  certainly, but to no serious extent. He may say It's all very well for so-and-so to charge the full fees for everything he does, but I'm not in that position and can't get them !" '' Very well, that's his misfortune, possibly his fault, let him lower his scale to four, to three to what he thinks wise, and subdivide that scale in the same proportion as the usual scale of five per cent. is already subdivided, and haying done this let him stick to it ; nobody can accuse him, at any rate, of dishonesty.

But the other man is dishonest, dishonest both to the profession and to his clients. For instance, A comes to me and commissions in to build a house for him to cost $20,ooo ; he is a gentleman and a descent fellow willing to pay properly for what he gets, and so leaves it to my honor to charge him what the work is worth. Consequently I bill him for $1,000 or five per cent. upon the cost, being the fee I am usually in the habit of charging. Then comes B for whom I do exactly the same work

—a house costing $20,ooo—but B is a hard fisted man who loves to drive a close bargain and so, by reason of that, and for fear that if I do not come down in my charges he will take his work elsewhere, I agree to do it for three per cent. and send him in a hill for $600 Unfortunately A and B meet, they talk about their new houses, and in the course of their conversation the matter of my charges comes up, and it is discovered that I have charged A $4oo more than I have charged B, and for identically the same work.

What would A think of me, and what possible explanation could

I offer him ? Could I feel hurt if he went about complaining that

I had swindled him, and could I persuade anybody that my conduct had been that of an honorable man?

It is against this sort of unprofessionalism which we must take the greatest care to guard ourselves. Any conduct on the part of an architect, which, while an offence against his brethren is even more so as regards his clients, must he put a stop to, if the profession of an architect. is ever to obtain the honorable position it deserves.

But there is a great deal more in the Ethics of the profession than this everlasting miserable question of money and charges. There is good manners and fair dealing one towards another, consideration of one another's work and one anothers' feelings. There might he less backbiting and more generosity, more sympathy for each others' failures and less jealousy about 0110 an-others' successes and more kindness and cordiality all round, but do, for the sake of all that is decent, let us put an end to these perpetual accusations of unfair and unprofessional conduct which are so constantly being bandied about. If there is nothing in the profession except the money we can make out of it, we had better abandon it, break up the Association and take to some other calling for the chances of fortune in the practice of architecture are few and far between.

I have occupied so much of your time with this question of legislation that I can say but little else, indeed I do not know that there is much that need he said. Matters of purely professional interest will he taken up by the various gentlemen who have been kind enough to prepare the papers which will be read to you Financial matters will he dealt with by the Secretary and Treasurer. I have confined myself almost entirely to the one real vital question which at present most concerns the very existence of this Associate ion.

I thank you gentlemen, for your attention here to-day, and we may now proceed to business.



The reading of the address was received with every

manifestation of approval, and its conclusion was the signal for prolonged and hearty applause.

TREASURER'S REPORT.



Mr. H. 13. Gordon then read the report of the Treasurer, as follows

THE TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION

<article title=" THE TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION " author="Gordon, H. B.">

OF ARCHITECTS.

	1895	DR.

Jan. 1st To balance from 1894....... $1,780 00

Dec. 31st	Members Annual Fe		2i4	00

	Members' Registration Fees		30	00

  "	Students Registration Fees		i8	00

	Students Examination Fees		i9	00

  "	Salt of Examination Papers			25

	Interest on Treasurer' s Bank Acct.,	-, 1895 .	56	oS

			$2,117	33

  1895	                 Cr.

Dec. 31st W. A. Langton, proportion o salary paid in

		 1895 as Registrar and Librarian ..		$273	71

	W. A. Langton, General Disbursements,..			28	07

	Traveling Expenses, Member of Council			6	50

	Carter. Sch P S re Convention and Exams.			15	00

	II.	Webb, Luncheon for Convention		15	00

	C.	H. Mortimer 1/2 cost reporting Convention		22	50

	N.	R. Butcher, Typewriting		12	70

	Printing Reports and Circulars, etc......			56	6o

	Printing Examination Papers			25	00

	General Stationery..........			14	10

	Book added to Library........			___ 3	35

		 Total Disbursements	$	472	53

	Balance on hand			1,644	8o

			$2,tt7		33

We have examined the books, vouchers, etc., of the Association, and certify that the above is a correct statement thereat'.

XX'M. R. GREGG,

	M. B. AYLSWORTH.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES JANUARY 1ST, 1896.



assets.

Cash in Bank	$1,644 8o

Library a.s per Valuation

Unpaid Membership Fees

	1891	6 Fees	S 28	00

	1892	i6 Fees	200	00

	1893	43 Fees	148	00

	1894	69 Fees	242	00

	1895 .	98 Fees	34t 00

	$959 00

Deduct, estimated doubtful	256 00

	703	00

Library (cost $232.00), 50 per cent. off	116	00

	$2,463	8o

 LIABILITIES ES.

Half Year's Salary, Registrar and Librarian	$ 150 00

Outstanding Accounts	33 6o

	$2,463 8o

H.	B. GORDON, Treasurer.



On motion by Mr. Dick, seconded by Mr. Wickson, the Treasurer's report was received and adopted.

REPORT OF REGISTRAR AND LIBRARtAN.



The following report was then read by the Registrar, Mr. W. A. Langton:

REI'ORT OF THE REGISTRAR AND LIBRARIAN AT THE ANNUAL

MEETING ON JANUARY 14TH, 1896.

MEMBERS.

The Annual Register of members for 1895 contained 133 names. One member has SINCE died. The 132 members remaining on the roll are classified as follows

CLASS I.— -Practising in York County, years and over... 48

	 11.—Practising in York County, under years.......	4

	III —Practising in cities outside of York, years and over	38

	IV.--—Practising in cities outside of York, under 5 years	4

	 V.— Practising in towns, villages, etc	17

	VI.---Civil servants	12

	VII.—Not practising ill Ontario	9

	132

NOTE--The number of members in Classes II and is variable, ant is established by application for the rebate by those who are entitled to in when paying their fees, in the above list the number fixed for these classes is the number of those who have applied for the reduced fee in 1895



ST U 'DENTS.

Students consist of those called by the Act "existing students" and of new students. Existing students were those who had been articled before the Act was passed and were required only to pass the final examination of the Association before being allowed to register as Architects. Many of these had already served their time——sometimes a considerable time before—html were still working as draughtsmen. The number of existing students registered was 83. The greater part have drifted away to other parts or to other callings, and some are practising architecture without having registered as architects, but there are several still in touch

