<doctype type="text">



regulations, this short paper will have served a useful purpose.



Prof. Wright at the conclusion of the paper said that while this paper is intended to deal mainly with the tire by-laws, in the early part a reference is made to a factor of safety which should be extended, especially with regard to wood, as there are apparently conflicting ideas before the profession. On the one hand we have a factor of safety of two regarded as sufficient, and so long as the views of the author are observed fully it is perfectly safe, but if this factor is applied to the results of the determinations of the modulus of rupture from other sources it is not safe. This might be explained in this way on the one hand we have a low modulus of rupture with a low factor of safety, giving the same working fiber stress as the higher modulus with the higher factor. This low modulus of rupture above referred to has been obtained by basing conclusions on the results of experiments which are generally rejected.



Again, it is well before using the results of any experimental research to observe fully the method under which such determinations have been conducted. For instance, after an elaborate set of experiments Prof. j. B. Johnson has established a relation between the percentage of moisture in a beam and its strength. So that having given the strength of a beam and its percentage of moisture it is possible to calculate what its strength would be with any other percentage of moisture. You will find these results and others equally valuable published under the direction of B. E. Furnow, by the U. S. Department of Agriculture Division of Forestry. These results, you will find, are very extensive and reliable and are the most advanced determinations of modern scientific research.

I should like to say a few words on that much vexed question of Portland cement. At the outset let me say that most architects and too many engineers draw up elaborate specifications regarding Portland cement and accept the material from the manufacturer without any examination as to its qualities whatever. Now from the very nature of the process of manufacture this material is liable to very great fluctuations and for that reason alone it requires careful watching to say nothing of the danger proceeding from middlemen who are willing to doctor the cement for a few paltry dollars. I have examined within the last year several large shipments which were absolutely worthless simply so much sand, or worse still, containing a large proportion of lime. These shipments of course were condemned, but you may feel sure the)- found their way into work where no examinations were made. Now I suppose the reason this neglect of testing is so general is because you have been led to believe a laboratory with a full equipment a necessity. While this may be true as far a thorough knowledge of the material is concerned, vet you may find out a great deal in a very simple manner. If you would mix a small quantity of cement with water and after it is set place it in hot water at a temperature of  110 F. if at the end of 48 hours it remains solid, adheres to the glass and keeps a sharp edge, you may feel fairly sure that it will not go to pieces on the work. with a small pair of scales and a fine sieve you could easily determine the fineness of the grinding. A cement which would not fail on glass in hot water and was fine, leaving only a small residue, might with safety be regarded as a fairly good cement. If in conjunction with this you determined its tensile strength you would be quite safe in your opinion.

The discussion of Mr. Gordon's paper was then proceeded with.

Mr. Gordon suggested that a resolution should be passed something to the effect, " That this Association, being impressed with the desirability of having some general building law applicable to the whole province, and also local and municipal building laws for each town and city resolves that a standing committee of five members of this Association be appointed by this convention, with instructions to formulate a general enactment of such desirable building laws, and that the committee correspond with architects and others of kindred

professions in the various towns and cities to secure such co-operation as is possible for attaining this object." He begged to move that resolution, and thought it very desirable that the project should be attempted.

Mr. Burke seconded the motion.

Mr. Dick pointed out that while there was danger, on the one hand, in allowing too much latitude, leaving people to do as they choose, and incurring thereby danger both constructive and sanitary, yet, on the other hand, there was danger of going too far in the direction of paternal legislation, by making the building laws deal so much with detail that they would almost take the place of a building hand—book, and put it in the power of people to say that where so much was determined 1w law there was no necessity for skilled architects. Of course all knew that building by-laws, or any other kind of laws, would never make architects in the true sense of the word. If building by—laws were made more strict than was absolutely necessary it had a tendency to deter people from building, because building was done generally as an investment, and if the cost of building was made excessive so that the returns from a building would not pay interest, capital would be chary of going into building operations.

Mr. Power quite agreed with all Mr. Dick had said, especially that the matter of legislation in that line might be overdone.

Mr. Gordon explained that he quite agreed that it was necessary to act with caution and discretion in regard to this matter. But at the same time he thought the Association ought to take the initiative in devising some active means of remedying the evils which existed. There were municipalities in which people were alive to these evils, and were endeavoring to cope with them, and who ought to be assisted in their endeavors. These people did not know just how to proceed, and had not the knowledge to enable them to grapple successfully with this problem, and there ought to be some committee to whom they could apply, and therefore he wished to see this committee appointed. It was the duty of the Association to educate public opinion in these matters, and that could be best done by appointing a good strong committee to exercise their judgment in regard to the matter. He thought such a committee would have enough common sense to avoid the evils which had been mentioned, and to know that the same law which was applicable to Toronto would not be adapted for some little village or town.

Mr. Dick stated that he did not for a moment intend to raise any op position to the appointment of such a committee, on the contrary he was prepared to vote for the adoption of Mr. Gordon's resolution.

Mr. Power also stated that he did not for a moment question the correctness of what Mr. Gordon had said, and he was in the same position as Mr. Dick.

The President did not think there was any danger of any such legislation as that suggested being carried too far, for the most they could hope for would be that a  very small portion of their recommendations might be adopted. How far we should go, he thought, might safely be left to the committee appointed.

The resolution was then carried.

The election of the members of the Council was then proceeded with, and resulted in the election of Messrs. Burke and Lennox, of Toronto, and Mr. Power, of Kingston, as the three new members of the Council.

Mr. Langton then moved that the thanks of the Association be tendered the lion. the Minister of Education, for permitting the use of the School of Practical Science in which to hold the convention, and to Professors Galbraith, Wright and Ellis, for their very kind assistance in making the convention a success.

Mr. Burke having seconded the motion, the President tendered the thanks of the Association to those of the gentlemen named who were in the room, stating that if half the members of the Association would help as heartily as those gentlemen had done, especially Prof. Wright, the conventions would be even a greater success than they had already been.

The convention then adjourned.

