<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	41

with a discharge port and an interior swinging gate for opening and closing said port, substantially as described.



































F' u RNACE.



Patentee J. W. F. Sole, Guelph, Ont., patented 11th November, 1895; 6 years.

Claim. - -In the combination of a combustion chamber closed at its rear end, against which the heated and liberated gases from the fire chamber may he projected as to be deflected, and a boiler provided with a series of short tubes so located as to he immediately over the fire bridge wall and the fire chamber, and forming outlets through which the inflamed and deflected gases pass to the chamber in the front of the boiler, then through the long tube to the rear chambers and smoke stack. In a device, the combination of the ash chamber A, tile grate B, the inlet C, between the fire bridge wall C', and the boiler H, the combustion chamber D, having its rear wall E built up to the boiler so as to close the rear end, short tubes H' formed in the lower part of the boiler H, front chamber I, long tubes J, rear chamber K, and smoke stack L, substantially as described.



































<article title=" CONTINUOUS BRICK KILN " author="">



CONTINUOUS BRICK KILN.



Patentee:	C. J. Lewis, Grimsby, Out., patented 22nd November, 1895; 6 years.



Claim.- A brick kind consisting of an outer wall, a series of vertical fire chambers on the inner side of the outer wall, the upper end of each of the vertical fire chambers opening into tile body of the kiln, a series of vertical hot air flues arranged around tile inner sides of the outer wall and extending through tile floor of the kiln, a flue connecting together the lower ends of each of the hot air flues, a main flue to the chimney into which the connecting flue discharges, a draft well formed centrally through the floor of the kiln into the main flue, and dampers for the main flue and connecting flue, substantially as specified.

Composition for artificial store, Frederick Brown and John King, both of Fort William, Ont.



Radiator for steam heating, F. E. Backus, Williamsport, U. S.



Pipe trap, H. F'. Pool, Lyn, Mass.



Jolsiab Fairbank, Helena, Ohio, machine for erecting frame structures.



Oliver Schlemmer, Cincinnati, Ohio, hot water heating apparatus.



J.	J. Baskerville, Duluth, Minn., school desk and seat.



John S. Burton, Danville, Ill., gable ornament for buildings.



Robert W. King, Toronto, Ont., ventilating apparatus.



J.	R. Bate, Cincinnati, Ohio, process of preserving wood fiber.

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BU ILDER



IT is a well—known fact in Montreal that a certain class of architects undertake to carry out work much below the customary percentage of 5On the cost of the building. The practice generally indulged in to undertake the preparation of plans and specifications, taking in tenders and superintendence at a cost of 2 1/2 to the proprietor, who is left under the impression that he is saving 2 1/2and congratulates himself at not having fallen in with some of those high priced architects with their exorbitant charges of

5;.	The bogus architect, as we may be allowed to call him, takes tile responsibility of taking out quantities when tenders are about to he called for, and charges a certain fee to each contractor tendering on the job, for a copy of his bill of quantities. Moreover the successful tenderer, under the pretext of renumerating the architect for the work and responsibility incurred by the taking out of these quantities, is forced to pay him an additional fee of 2 12 on the acceptance of his tender on the full amount of same. Thus it will be seen the proprietor pays indirectly to the architect more than the customary commission of 5 , as it is evident tile contractor reimburses himself for the 2 12 commission he has paid, and, moreover, the architect loses his independence towards the contractor, and is entirely at his mercy As a result, very' often, tile latter is the sole judge of the interpretation of the

plans and specifications, and if he finds he has not made a sufficient allowance for profit or contingencies in his original tender, he invariably tries to save every penny he can on the material and workmanship employed in the building. Honest contractors should unite together and refrain in a body from tendering in the office of an architect who will indulge in these practices, as not only will they have the disadvantage of invariably meeting with tile recriminations of tile proprietor but also risk their business reputation and lower their class of work below the standard, with the result of being refused the patronage and encouragement of honest architects.

Another well—known method of boodling '' is in the inducement of manufacturers to architects to specify their goods. Manufacturers, anxious to introduce a new heating furnace or other goods or materials used in buildings, pay entrain percentage to architects on the amount of goods specific for their influence in helping them to introduce the same. All these dishonest practices should he brought to light and strongly condemned, so that persons intending to build may guard themselves against persons carrying Oil business in a suspicious manner, and encourage the honest, straightforward and deserving class of architects and contractors, with mutual advantages to all con— cc med.

AUGE BILL.



The Auge Bill has undergone considerable modifications at the last session of the Legislature (21st December, 1895). It has been first modified so that the workingmen's privilege will apply to the plus value only created by their work, and not on the original value, and the starting point of the delay of 30 days allowed for tile registration of privileges has been fixed at when the building is ready for occupancy. Architects have not been given a privilege which they did not enjoy before. Their privilege conies next o that oft lie workman and before that of tile contractor. The order of privileges is as follows: 1st, the laborer ; 2nd, the workmen; 3rd, the architect ; 4th, the contractor. The obscure clause about tile sub—contractor, which I explained and condemned in my correspondence on the Auge Bill in the August number of the CANAIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER has been cancelled. The privilege given the finisher of materials takes rank only after the privileges previously registered ; and when the proprietor has paid the contractor and received notice from the furnisher of materials of money clue him by the contract or, the proprietor cannot be held responsible for the same. This amendment is a very desirable one. When a proprietor builds himself, without the intermediary aid of a contractor, the notices from the privileged parties should be addressed to the person who furnish tile funds for the erection of the building. Le Prix Courant " in an editorial expresses the opinion that as a whole the Auge law is more reasonable and practicable than previously, but that it would have been more simple and preferable to abolish the same altogether.

<article title=" CONTRACTORS' DRIVE " author="">

CONTRACTORS' DRIVE.

After a lapse of seven years the contractors of this city have revived their popular drives, the first of which was held on Saturday, the 29th of February. Messrs. Peter Wand and W. A. Stephenson assumed the management, and upwards of sixty well-known contractors enjoyed tile outing. Their destination was Peloquin's hotel, Sault an Recollet, where an excellent dinner was served, tile chair being occupied by Mr. Wand, and tile vice-chair by Mr. Peter Lyall. After numerous toasts and speeches, tile company returned about ten o'clock and congratulated themselves upon the re-union.



CORRECTION.

IN the reference in our New Year Number to the new Wesley College building, Winnipeg, should have been stated that Messrs. George Browne and S. Frank Peters were associate architects of the building.



T. M. Hennessy, architectural draughtsman of the Department of Public Works, has compiled a most accurate and useful table, setting forth the comparative sizes, absorbing properties, specific gravity, etc., of the different pressed brick manufactured in the Province of Ontario.

