<doctype type="text">

2 1/2 miles from the railway, and also in the township of Montague, it is in beds from 4 to 10 inches thick, nearly white, can he quarried easily, has true natural beds, and can be laid up as easily as brick, without any further preparation than breaking to sizes required. In other places, such as Huntley, Ramsay, &c., I have seen it with a white or bluish glassy appearance, often translucent but very hard.

In North Elmsley, near Perth and near the Rideau Canal, there are large quantities white, yellowish white or bright yellow, and the same colors, beautifully striped and mottled with dark purple. It is easily quarried and requires little dressing for use as coursed or broken coursed rubble. Good examples of it can be seen in the railway station at Perth and in the new Government buildings at Almonte, Carleton Place and Smiths Falls. These Government buildings are trimmed with Nova Scotia red sandstone, which matches the rubble very well. It looks well also trimmed with Credit Valley stone and with Ohio free stone. Near Ottawa it is abundant in good form for rubble, as may he seen in the Parliament buildings at Ottawa, which, as trimmed with Ohio free stone, show to great advantage the beauty of this class of rubble stone.

THE TRENTON GROUP—LIMESTONE.



This covers a large area and produces our best stone for heavy work, such as canal locks, railway bridges, &c. It is generally a nearly pure carbonate of lime, sometimes mixed with carbonate of magnesia, and often carries a large proportion of sand. I, in common with many of the engineers in Eastern Ontario and Montreal, divide it into two classes, called for want of better names,

Grey '' and Blue," although the color designation is somewhat misleading.

For dimension stone, the Grey " is found in even beds from one to three feet thick. It is easily quarried, breaks out well with plug and feather, cuts easily and well and is very durable. The grey has a coarse or open grain, and shows a torn or ragged fracture when broken. It produces excellent dimension stone for building. It is abundant and good at Terrebonne, back of Montreal, at Caughuawaga, at East Hawesbury, at Cumberland, at Gloucester, at Hull and at many other places. Examples of its adaptation to the better class of building may he seen in the Court I louse, the Quebec Bank and other buildings at Ottawa, and in several buildings at I lull. It also gives good rubble, easily dressed into what is locally known as shoddy.''

The Blue is fine and close in grain, breaks with a sharp clear cut and often concoidal fracture, presenting a glassy surface. It does not cut nearly so well as the grey, often eating out before the tool, leaving concave hollows. It is not so durable as the grey nor does it give as good results for dimension stone. It produces abundance of rubble in fact it is the most commonly used stone all over the country where it can be got, as it is comparatively soft, easily quarried, and requires little preparation for use. The Blue'' is generally bright in appearance when first quarried, but unfortunately fades in a few years and becomes a

sickly ' white, as may be seen at Kingston and other places. It makes a poor contrast trimmed with Ohio free stone, but looks mtich better with the yellow sandstone of the Potsdam formation.

Near Cornwall, near Pakenham and some other places there are thick beds, fine-grained, which take a fine polish, and are first black, with a few white spots when polished. These can be easily' sawn, polished and used for paving, and also for any other purpose where it is desirable to use a black marble. They are locally called Black Marble."

In the township of Beckwith, close to Carleton Place and the C. P. Railway, there is a large quantity, which, as far as I know, is unique. It is of the grey variety, as far as texture is concerned and is in masses, riot having very' clearly defined beds, but is easily quarried to any desired size, tools and bush hammer's very well, and is really a valuable building stone, although unfortunately the color——a dark grey brown, gloomy in appearance—is much against it. However, it does well in basements making a ground work from which to start a brighter superstructure. It is now being quarried extensively', and is used in all the towns and villages for a considerable distance in every direction, for sills, lintels, corners, plinths, &c., for which it seems to he well adapted. It is known as Beckwith Stone '' and is a nearly pure carbonate of lime and magnesia, carrying only 330154f silica a or other impurities indissolvable in hydrochloric ac id Strange to say, it is often erroneously called free stone or sand stone \ somewhat similar stone is found in Mainland, but it is not so dark in color, and is not nearly so good.

All the region I have spoken of is rich in valuable building stones, of very varied colors and qualities -- much more so than

the western l)art of the province, and could be drawn on to advantage for buildings in the rapidly' growing city of Toronto— the only' objection being that they are generally somewhat harder than the Toronto builders have been accustomed to.

I have spoken only of what	I have seen myself. As a large comparatively' unexplored, or little

portion of the district is as yet

known, no doubt what I have enumerated does not nearly' cover the whole field.

	the	recapitulating the build—

In concluding I will take liberty of reign stones heretofore spoken of, which could he advantageously' brought to and used in Toronto

Granite—Especially that from Charleston Lake and in rear of Ganauoque and Kingston.

The various Crystalline Limestones or Marbles of the Laurentian formation.

Dimension Stone and Rubble, especially' the latter from the Potsdam sandstone. The rubble could he used, either coursed, broken coursed or random, in churches, detached private residences, &c., either trimmed with Potsdam, or with Credit Valley, or Ohio stone.

From the Trenton group, black limestone or black marble,'' and the Beckwint stone.''

All of the above can now be obtained close to railways or navigation, although in many' cases the quarries are not being worked at present, but soon would be if there was any' demand for the stone.

I will be glad at any time to furnish any' further information I can as to where and how any of these building stones can be obtained if wanted.

<article title=" CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS " author="">



CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

The following is the Code of Engineering Ethics recently adopted by the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers

DUTY OF THE ENGINEER TO his CLIENT.

—Every member of the Society should perform the work he undertakes to do to the best of h is ability and in the true spirit of his engagement, feeling it to tie his duty

to present all ascertained facts in their true light.

the clients Obligation TO THE Adviser.

2. The Civil Engineer has a rig hr to expect front his client the same consideration and deference to his opinion as is by their clients accorded to the members of other professions—Law and Medicine for example—and without which the adviser should decline to advise. The surest way for the Engineer to obtain such necessary consideration and deference from the public win he found in his manner of carrying himself.



MUTUAL Relations OF CHIEF AND Assistant.

<article title=" MUTUAL Relations OF CHIEF AND Assistant " author="">

3.—-The Assistant Engineer must loyally obey and support his Chief, to whom it with be his duty to report directly on an matters relating to the work on which they may be jointly engaged. His report should be fun and explicit on all important points and exact to the best of the Assistant's knowledge and belief, cloaking nothing, even though going to show that previous reports have been inaccurate or not duly weighed in some particulars affecting the well being of the business in hand.



4. The Assistant Engineer is entitled to look to his Chief for, and to receive front hint, advice for his guidance in the proper performance of his duties and, where right, to expect his support in matters in dispute between him the Assistant) and his subordinates or between butt and the contractors working under him He is also entitled to the aid of the Chief Engineer's professional experience or counsel where unlooked for or extraordinary difficulties present themselves or changes of original plan may be called for in the work on which they are associated, so that responsibility may he fairly apportioned between them,



5.—It is the duty of both Chief and Assistant, each in his department, to study proper economy in the doing of the work, the management of which they have tinder-taken, and in every way consistent with the maintaining of the good character of the work to make the client's interest the guiding object.



6.—The Engineer may legitimately suggest experiments with a view to improvement whether in methods of doing the work which he oversees or for raising its character, but such experiments should only be undertaken with the full consent and cooperation of the party, whether client or contractor, on whom the expense may fall, and on the understanding that to them will accrue all pecuniary benefit from the success of the experiment.



7—It shall be considered unprofessional for any member of this Society to seek the position of an expert to report on any work that is in charge of a recognized Engineer.



B.—Ii shall he the duty of any Engineer before examining any work with a view to report thereon to give the Engineer due notice before going on with the investigation, in order that he may base every facility to explain and sustain his methods of carrying on the work in question.



Professional Services OF Engineers TO EACH OTHER.

9.—interchange of professional assistance between members, as tending to promote fraternal intercourse and mutual good-will is not to be discouraged, but neither is it to he considered obligatory on a member to respond to the request of a fellow. member for professional counsel or assistance. Service so rendered must be entirely voluntary on the part of the member whose aid is sought.



Pecuniary MATTERS, Advertising, ETC.



10 —The Civil Engineer may consistently with professional status take out patents for new inventions or for improvements on old ones, and may sell or otherwise dispose of the permits for his own advantage He may undertake surveys and the engineering of works by contract, or he may take contracts for the construction of works on a percentage of their cost. Advertising with a view to attracting business should, where resorted to. be as far as possible free from egotistic or self-laudatory references and expressed lit language not derogatory to the dignity of the profession.



Duties OF THE ENGINEER TO THE PUBLIC.



11-—The Civil Engineer whose advice is sought in respect to the usefulness, practicability and cost of a smirk should before expressing his opinion obtain reliable information on all points involved in the matter submitted to his judgement, including the probable paying capacity of the contemplated undertaking. He must be cautious how he recommends large preliminary outlay should avoid connecting himself with schemes or projects of merely speculates character, always bearing in mind that his professional reputation will he to a great extent judged by the inherent merits and commercial value of the undertakings with which his name may come to be associate.



At the ordinary meeting of the Society held at 112 Mansfield

St., Montreal, on the 13th February the President, Mr. Herbert

Wallis, presided. The evening was occupied in the discussion of

Mr. W. Bell Dawson's paper on '' Retaining Walls,'' in which

Messrs. I-I. Irwin and J. G. Kerry took a prominent part.

At the meeting on Thursday February 27th, at which Mr. Wallis the President, also presided a paper on the Penn Yan (N.Y. ) Waterworks by' Mr. Angus Smith student of the Society, was read by the Secretary. there was also a debate on the following resolution ''That engineering works should be constructed by day's work tinder the immediate direction of an engineer instead of being done through a contractor.' The debate was opened by Mr. W. J Sproule and was taken part in by Messre. Wallis, Irwin, Smith, Kerry and others.

