<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



BUILDING STONES OF EASTERN ONTARIO.*

BY ANDREW BELL.



NOTES ON THE BUILDING STONES FOUND IN EASTERN ONTARIO

AND LOWER OTTAWA VALLEY, EMBRACING THAT PART OF THE

<article title=" NOTES ON THE BUILDING STONES FOUND IN EASTERN ONTARIO

AND LOWER OTTAWA VALLEY " author="">

PROVINCE AND Ottawa VALLEY EAST OF A LINE FROM THE



HEAT OF THE BAY OF QUINTE TO MATTAWA ON THE OTTAWA.



THE following notes are Compiled from personal observations, extending over the past 40 years, during which time T was in active practice in that region, both in engineering and architectural building, but principally the former.

The region contains a great variety of valuable, useful and ornamental building stones, in unlimited quantities, for almost any purpose in building, except for highly ornamental cutting such as can he done with the Ohio and similar free stones—of that there may be said to he none or next to none. When I mention a stone that will cut well, I mean the good ordinary cutting for general building, as distinguished from a stone that can be easily cut for ornamental purposes, as before mentioned.

The subject, to do it justice, would require a large volume instead of a short paper; the following notes, on that account, may appear to he rather fragmentary.

I do not speak of the different building stones from a scientific, but from a practical point of view, as I saw them.

Geology divides the rocks in this territory into two general groups—the primitive or igneous formations, and the sedimentary rocks, comprising the Lower Silurian groups. The first covers perhaps two—thirds of the district, and, for our purpose, may he divided into Granite Proper'' and the Laurentian.'' The other comprises the ' Potsdam Sandstone," the Trenton and Black River " groups of limestone, (which I will for the sake of brevity call the Trenton group ") and the Utica Slate," which latter, however, does not furnish any good building stone worth mentioning.

I will take them in the above order.

GRANITE PROPER.



This is not found exposed in many places, or covering a large area. The best I know of, and the most accessible, is in the vicinity and north of Gananoque, especially at Charleston Lake. There it can he obtained, free from flaws, in any desired size. It is, of course, as all granites are, hard to quarry and hard to cut, hut breaks out well with the plug and feather, and, although hard, cuts well and takes a fine polish. It varies in color front light grey to a beautiful mottled red, closely resembling and fully equal to the celebrated Peterhead granite. It looks its best when polished, as in pillars, &c., but would also he admirable for basements.



Granite is found also at several places in the counties of Lanark, Renfrew, Addington, and on the Ottawa, but I do not remember any of them in those localities that are at present easily accessible. Some granite has been quarried near Gananoque, but to such a limited extent, and not at all in the best localities in which it is found, that it may be considered as yet unknown to use general public.

LACRENT IAN.



Wherever this prevails it generally furnishes fairly' good stone for rough rubble work. In many places gneiss is found in courses from 6 to inches thick, with good natural beds, not requiring much dressing, varying from nearly white to dark grey', but can hardly he considered a desirable stone to take to any distance, although useful in its immediate locality.

But the strong point in the Laurentian is its crystalline lime— stones, marbles, serpentines and dolomite. They are found all over where the Laurentian prevails in great variety—generally coarsely crystallized, although often fine grained. In color generally pure white, light and (lark grey, white and grey mixed, or beautifully streaked and mottled with grey and white or light and dark grey'. It is sometimes nearly black, often green, mottled green and white, and sometimes pink, salmon-colored and yellow, and various other colors and mixtures. Generally the crystalline limestones are more in masses than in beds, although sometimes found in well-defined courses from 6 to 24 inches thick, with good natural beds. Stones of almost any desired size can he taken out. They are fairly easily quarried—much easier than granite——break well with plug and feather, cut well, almost always take a fine polish, even when very coarsely crystallized, and are generally very durable. At Poltage du Fort and many other places along the Ottawa they are found pure white, or nearly so. In the townships of Dalhousie, Lanark, Pakenham, but especially at and near Arnprior, where is obtained the well-



Paper read before the Ontario Association of Architects.

known Arnprior marble,'' they are light grey, grey a lid white, or light and dark grey mixed, with the markings often very beautiful. These, although giving splendid dimension stone and ashlar, are rather too somber in hue to he ever much in demand for ornamental purposes. They would he good ill basements, or sawn into pavements, &c.

In the mountain, only a few hundred yards front the Calumet station on the C. P. Railway, there is a large mass of green mottled serpentine which could be taken out in pieces of any required size. It is not very coarse-grained, can he comparatively easily quarried, cut or sawn and shows a beautiful green mould surface when polished. Some 50 years ago a quarry of this was opened and a small mill built On the Calumet River close to the quarry to saw it, but I do not know if any was ever sawn and put on the market. Since then it seems to have been forgotten. It should make good pavement for halls, green-houses, &c., and might he used to advantage for many other ornamental purposes.

At Massonog Lake, in the township of Barrie, some 15 or 20 miles north of Kaladar Station, 011 the Toronto branch of the C. P. R. , there is a mountain of marble, mostly white, rising almost perpendicularly out of the lake to a height of 300 feet. It is fine in grain, resembling in appearance the well—known Italian and Vermont marbles, hut all the specimens I have examined contained small particles of quartz, which is a serious drawback to its cutting Or polishing. It is situated in a wild, almost uninhabited part of the country, and it is therefore probable that it has not yet been carefully examined, nor any regular quarries opened If that were done intelligently, no doubt sonic valuable beds of marble would he found in it. As before Intentioned, it is mostly white, hut some parts or beds are a beautiful light pink, and some spotted and mottled with black, grey, red and other colors.

Near Rentrew a rather fine-grained kind is found, which is white, prettily' spotted with light gray' or blue and sometimes with red. Near Bridgewater it is found black and white, or what might he called pepper and salt."

The white coarsely crystallized marbles when polished, and they take a very fine polish, are often very beautiful on account of the iridescent effect of the large crystals. In Huntley', Darling and several other places there are formed small masses of these marbles—light pink, salmon—colored and yellow. They are generally as yet unexplored.

All the crystalline Limestone would give good paving for halls of public buildings, &c., and could he used for the thousand and one other purposes which will suggest themselves to the architect. The quantity is unlimited and t he variety endless.



POTEDAM SANDSTONE.



This produces generally a hard and often coarse-grained sandstone—-sometimes pure white, but oftener yellowish white, or yellow often red, or streaked with red and yellowish white, or two or three shades of red, and sometimes white or yellowish white beautifully mouled and streaked with dark purple. It often contains a good deal of iron, which, when exposed, oxidizes and gives an appearance of age to time building, not at all unpleasing to the eye.

Some beds in many places, such as near Pembroke, in Ramsay', near Pembroke ; in Ramsay, near Almonte ; at Lombardy', near Smith's Falls in North Elmsley, near Perth, and several places along the Rideau Canal, it gives really good dimension stone of tile various colors mentioned, and can he got in courses front 12 to 24 incises thick, with good natural beds, requiring little dressing to lay close joints. The thicker beds often cut fairly well, and sometimes would almost merit the term of free stone.

At Dog Lake, on the Rideau Canal, I have seen It in thick courses of a pleasing light red color. This would make good dimension stone, or good rubble as it splits parallel with the natural beds. It is coal's in grain hilt cuts well.

In Ramsay—at Lombardy' and at Pembroke—some beds are white or yellowish white, a good example of which may he seen in the Court I louse at Pembroke, and several buildings at Smith's Falls.

The Potsdam produces splendid rubble stone in a great variety of colors, almost always pleasing—-quarries easily, generally wit It good natural beds, and, although hard, calls he easily shaped for use with the hammer or point.

At or near Hudson, on the Ottawa, it is found of a reddish color, a good example of which is the new Catholic church at Oka, opposite Hudson. At Pembroke, besides white, it is found red, or striped red and white, or with two or three shades of red, a good example of which is the nest' Government buildings at Pembroke. In Beckwith, some six miles from Carleton Place, and

