<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



countless examples of both variety and contrast she never violates the laws of harmony and this is where our mistakes are most "en evidence."

The eclectic tendency of our designers, added to the whims and caprices of a builder, result in the most striking discords. Buildings of diametrically opposite style are placed side by side. The color in which one house may be decorated completely kills both itself and the unfortunate neighbors. This lamentable result would not be nearly so common were the buildings separated from each other by even a narrow stretch of landscape or shrubbery but the insane desire to crowd the greatest number of houses on the smallest possible area of ground greatly magnifies the evil.

The distinction between variety and difference is a wide one, and it is quite possible to secure the greatest variety as well as the most marked contrasts, without those harsh and discordant effects so frequently seen, did those who are responsible for the design bring judgment and taste and study to bear on the problem?

Let us now very briefly consider domestic architecture in its individual or specific aspect, that is the study of a dwelling in itself. We will, I think, find this aspect to be fully as interesting as the broader or more general one we have been discussing. Under this heading much indeed might be said. We might with interest and no little profit sketch the various stages through which the habitations of man have progressed from the earliest examples down to our own day. W e might discuss the suitability and adaptability of the different styles of architecture for domestic buildings. But the barest outline of these facts or theories would extend a paper, such as this, beyond all reasonable limits. We will confine our observations on this occasion to a brief consideration of how the main uses for which a dwelling is erected may be architecturally expressed. In other words, attempt to analyze the principles on which house building, from an aesthetic point of view, is based.

Among the numerous uses of a dwelling house shelter, rest and comfort probably come first. Family privacy and hospitality are likewise important considerations. In design the ideal dwelling should fully and unmistakably express these facts and sentiments, not to speak of such others as the specific habits or tastes of its occupants may call for. This great variety of sentiment, in the full expression of which domestic architecture has its highest possibilities, furnishes an opportunity for artistic treatment of almost unlimited scope.

But while the sentiments just alluded to are primarily in the interest of the occupier of the house, the commonest ties of humanity demand that a selfish thought of his own interests should not be the only motives which actuate the house builder. He should be as considerate of his neighbors as he would like them to be of him and even the general public should by no means be forgotten.

Nor does public spiritedness and friendly consideration for others, even in the matter of house building, go without its due reward. The man who thus thinks of others than himself wil1 have, not only the inward satisfaction that such actions invariably bring he will set an example that others will follow, to the general improvement and thus ultimate benefit of the whole locality, to say nothing of the greatly improved chances of selling property that has been thus brought favorably to the public notice.

Let us now enquire how the sentiments expressive of home life are to be proclaimed, not in words, but in the more enduring materials of construction. To take the one we have first mentioned, iz,: shelter. How this can he most clearly expressed will depend largely on the climatic conditions obtaining in the specific case. If protection from the burning rays of the sun, or the downpouring of heavy rains is the chief consideration, broad verandas and roofs with spreading eaves would naturally be appropriate. Is resistance to the violence of the wind and storm most necessary, then projections of less extent and the use of stone or brick and other materials suggestive of strength and durability might be used to advantage.

To continue in order, the next sentiment is Rest. One might well ask, how many of our homes suggest this primal sentiment in their external appearance ? Precious few, and yet what architectural expression can be more appropriately given to the dwelling Place of man? Why is this? Doubtless because it is most difficult of attainment. One need scarcely say that many of our grandest, most expensive and most elaborately built houses are complete failures in this respect.

Here artistic ability and cultivated taste may well expend their best efforts. It is useless to lay down rules in such a case, but a

suggestion or two may he offered which will perhaps form a base on which to work.

Rest or repose in buildings may be obtained in a variety of ways. Simplicity and breadth of treatment are of the first importance. By skilful composition the various parts of even a complex structure may be so arranged and grouped as to produce a complete whole, the general purpose of which is easily and quickly though perhaps unknowingly comprehended by mind and eye. It is impossible to give an air of quiet restfulness to a house whose facades are full of features bays and turrets and balconies, windows large and small, and round distract the eye and weary the brain in a hopeless search for something on which to rest.

A certain proportion of p1an wall surface is an indispensable condition without it repose is unattainable. A judicious use of materials bearing in mind their colors, will also be most helpful in imparting the expression of rest to a building those that convey the impression of stability and equipoise, the more somber colors below, the lighter and brighter above.

Comfort, the next quality to he considered, should also be clearly expressed. Here, good workmanship is of paramount importance. Nothing could he more destructive to a sense of comfort than flimsy or cheap materials put together in a careless or slovenly manner. Windows should be of proper size, convenient shape and in suitable positions. An air of spaciousness or at all events an avoidance of anything approaching a cramped appearance. Ample bays and verandahs will add much to the air of comfort.

Privacy this most important point is too often neglected. The house is for the use of the family, not for the public or even the near neighbors. If circumstances will allow it, the building should he kept well back from street line, and in any case the exercise of judgment and thoughtfulness in arranging the levels and positions of windows will do much to secure this most desirable property.

There are many other sentiments which might most appropriately he expressed in the exterior design of a house, but time for— bids reference to more than the remaining one of  lose before mentioned, Hospitality. This quality is also not to he overlooked or a most serious defect will be apparent.

It is quite frequently the case that on approaching a house the entrance is the last feature to catch the eye, a feature which, pet'— haps more than ally' other, impresses an important character oil the building to which it belongs. It is the entrance which stamps on any house an air either of hospitality or exclusiveness. A cramped insignificant door or one not easily seen from the street as certainly conveys the latter impression, as a wide, inviting and

prominent entrance augurs a hospitable reception to the approaching guest. The doorway should not only be plainly visible to the passer-by, but a due regard for comfort and shelter in the shape of a projecting portico or recessed entrance of generous dimensions will not fail to add greatly to the attractiveness of' any home.

These phonetic qualities of architecture may be as clearly impressed on the humble cottage as on the lordly manor. Because every man's house is his castle is no reason why every modest home should ape the pretentiousness of a palace. We have too many instances of this. It is, perhaps, one of the most frequent and offensive infractions of the laws of good taste. If instead of striving after conspicuousness, the chief aim of our architects was quiet dignity and simplicity, with a due regard for the environments of the home, doubtless we should soon see a very marked improvement in the general and specific character of our domestic  architecture



Thomas A. Edison, the electrician, has been investigating time Pierce & Norris method of making bricks out of sand, plants for which are in operation at London, Dunnville, Port Huron, Sarnia and elsewhere in Ontario. Mr. Edison proposes establishing a plant at his home in New Jersey.

Mr. W. A. B. Fishleigh, of Indian Head, N.W.T., has invented a new heater, a patent for which is now being applied for. The cold air enters from the bottom, and passes up and down through several tubes in the inside of the stove before it is emitted. It is claimed to effect a large saving in fuel.

The Stonecutters' Union of Ottawa have decided to enter into competition with masons in laying stone. This has been brought about by the refusal of the Stonemasons' and Bricklayers' Unions to assist the stonecutters in shutting out stone dressed in Hull, by declining to work on buildings on which it is used.

