<doctype type="text">

and expressed the hope that the change would prove beneficial.

Aid. Hallam followed, and took occasion to make a hit at the plumber's bill. ''If you get as good returns from your banquet as you do from your bills," he said, "you will have enough to keep you feasting until the end of the world." Regarding legislation he promised his support to any movement which is in the interest of the public, and he had confidence that the plumbers will only ask for what is right.

Aid. Bell said he had always coincided with the views of the plumbers, and declared that the amendments to the Plumbers' By-law, which were secured at the solicitation of the plumbers had resulted beneficially to the public.

The toast of the "Manufacturers and Wholesale Supply Men," was proposed by the Vice-President, and the manner in which it was received showed that little friction existed between the plumbers and manufacturing firms.

Mr. Carrick, of the Gurney Foundry Co., was the first to respond. He regretted the unavoidable absence of their president, but assured the members of the Association that his firm would do all in their power to meet the demands of the trade.

Mr. James Morrison congratulated the Association upon the success of their banquet, and expressed himself as willing to assist in improving the plumbing trade.

Mr. P. McMichael, of the James Robertson Co., was satisfied that the Association had the sympathy of the manufacturers, who, he believed, would do everything in their power to place the trade on a solid financial basis

The next response came from Mr. W. B. Malcolm, who said '' Within the past few years conditions in the plumbing trade have greatly changed. Some time ago it was necessary to keep a number of men to make up baths, soil pipe, etc., but now this has passed into the hands of the manufacturers, and the plumber has very little for his men to do. This has brought about keen competition, and prices are therefore cut very fine. It is necessary that the manufacturers should join with the plumbers to maintain prices. In this way the manufacturers would he benefited, as there would be fewer failures."

Mr. Somerville, of the Ontario Lead and Barb Wire Co., also promised the Association the sympathy and co-operation of his firm.

Mr. MacArthur, of Craig, MacArthur & Co., said The progress and growth of the plumbing trade is one of the wonders of civilization. No man works harder and receives less remuneration for his services than the plumber, except, perhaps, the supply man. Instead of plumbers receiving more than a just amount for their work, it is quite the reverse. Show me a retired plumber. They are not to be found, but in nearly every other trade or profession it is possible to retire after fifteen or twenty years of active business.

Mr. Andrew Taylor, of the Toronto Radiator Company ; Mr. Stephens, of London Mr. Wayne, of the Poison Co. ; Mr. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Co. and Mr. Bullock, of the Perkins Boiler Works, each spoke briefly, complimenting the Association and promising their hearty support.

With the toast of '' Our Guests " were coupled the names of three representatives from London, Messrs. Hazlett, Skelly and Smith.

Mr. Hazlett said that they had tried three or four times to form an Association in London, but without success, and now they were going to make another attempt. They had come down to the banquet to get some ideas, and he hoped next year he would be able to return the courtesy of an invitation.

Mr. Smith and Mr. Skelley also made some brief remarks, referring to the difficulty experienced in forming an Association in London.

The President then invited all the members of the Master Plumbers' and Steam Fitters' Association to meet the London delegates at the Builders' Exchange at 10 o'clock the following morning, for the purpose of discussing the formation of an Association in London.

Mr. John Aidrige, President of the Toronto Builders' Exchange, responded to the toast of " Sister Associations " in a few brief but pointed remarks. lie hoped the plumbers would shortly form a provincial Association

Messrs. Kirk and Meadows replied to the toast of the Plumbing Inspectors of Our City," and Messrs. Alcock and Meadows to that of "The Ladies." "The Press" was acknowledged by representatives of Hardware and Metal and the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Although the hour was late, the opportunity of drinking the health of the Association was not allowed to pass. The toast was proposed by Mr. MacArthur, in response to which the President, Mr. Burroughes, expressed regret that there were so many illegitimate plumbers in the city of Toronto. He believed that membership in the Association should be sufficient qualification for a plumbing license, and no man should be given a license who could not pass a qualifying examination. lie intended to use his efforts to improve the trade. (Cheers.)

The Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer were also called, and expressed their belief in the possibility of bringing about an improved condition of the trade.

The entertainment feature of the evening's program was as follows Songs by Messrs. Bullock, Alexander, Ernest Williams, John Ritchie, R. J. Hazlett, Beavis and AId. McMurrich ; comic speech by Mr. Palmer humorous reading by Mr. James Malcolm ; ventriloquism, Mr. Simpson.

The committee of management, composed of w. J. Burroughes, Jas. H. Wilson, Thos. Cook and G. H. Beavis, have every reason to feel gratified at the success which attended their efforts.

<article title=" TRANSFER OF PLUMBING DEPARTMENT " author="">

TRANSFER OF PLUMBING DEPARTMENT.

IN the recent reconstruction of the various civic departments of Toronto, the Plumbing Department was transferred from the supervision of the City Engineer to that of the Medical Health Officer. The plumbing trade regard the new arrangement with favor, as likely to result beneficially to the city, the plumber, and the general public. In this connection we might state that it is the intention of the master plumbers to seek certain amendments to the existing City plumbing by—law. The main object of these amendments is to secure for the license inspectors more freedom in the exercise of their judgment. It is held that the present bylaw is so framed that the inspectors are bound down to cast-iron rules, without regard to the governing conditions in any particular case. With competent inspectors it seems reasonable to expect that they should be allowed the free exercise of their knowledge, and this the plumbers hope to secure under the new order of things.



Time Halifax Master Plumbers Association have adopted resolutions for the protection of the trade, and have forwarded a copy of same to every manufacturer of plumbing supplies in Canada.



The members of the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association held a conference at the Builders' Exchange, Toronto, on the 28th of March, with representative master plumbers of London, Ont., to

discuss the organization of an Association in the latter city. The London delegates were Messrs. W. J. Skelly, W. J. Hazlett and

W.	Smith, who were furnished with copies of the Constitution and full information regarding the working of the Toronto Association. It is believed that at an early date the formation of an Association in London will be accomplished.

