<doctype type="text">

PROFESSOR Roger T. Smith, F. R. I. B. A., Value of Professional concluded a lecture at University College Journals.

on Architects' Libraries, by saving: " Lastly, let me recommend the back volumes of the professional journals, In the course of years all sorts of architectural topics come up in the public press and before the professional societies, and if you hunt through the indices of these publications when you are seeking for information which eludes you in hooks, you will often be rewarded."

being provided in one of the existing buildings. This is a consummation towards which the hopes of the architects of the Province of Quebec have long been turned, and its realization has given rise to a feeling of the deepest satisfaction. As a result of the course of instruction to be established at McGill, we may expect to see the work of the architects of the future characterized by a higher standard of ability and efficiency, and from this in turn will come a truer conception and appreciation on the part of the public of the essentials of beauty.

<article title=" Stone with Brick " author="">

THE introduction of stone in brick

	The Combination of	has	a satisfying effect

	Stone with Brick, buildings always	a satisfying

if not overdone, inasmuch as its mission is at once recognized by the eye and accepted as being legitimate and in good taste. A fair sprinkling of grey-stone in plinths, beltings, quoins, lintels and sills, is not inappropriate when judiciously distributed in the walls of a red brick building. In fact, the greystone tends to soften the monotony of a continuous red surface, and gives the eye rest, while it does no violence to refined taste. Where expense does not obstruct the way, it is much better to make use of stone as an interval, than of colored bricks.





THE sudden collapse of the skeleton Defective Construction, skating rink at Orillia recently should



prove an object lesson to corporations or others owning like structures. A curling match had just been finished, and all parties, including spectators, had just left the building, when the whole affair tumbled in on the ice that had just been occupied. A little earlier, and from 75 to 100 lives would have been jeopardized ; indeed, parties who were concerned in the curling game assert that had the place been occupied, nothing but a miracle could have saved a life, as tons and tons of ice fell in with the debris. Buildings of this sort, intended for public gatherings, should be under some kind of municipal or government control.

<article title=" An Interesting Point of Law " author="">

THE Courts have been called upon to An Interesting Point of Law give decision in a very unusual

of Law.

case, and one in which builders might be expected to feel an interest. Several ministers of the religious sect known as Seventh Day Adventists, who, like the Jews, observe Saturday as the Sabbath, were brought before the Courts for violating the statute relating to Sabhath observance by engaging in the work of erecting a new church in the neighborhood of Chat-ham, Grit., upon a Sunday. The lower courts recorded a conviction against them, and the Divisional Court at Toronto, in view of the fact that it may be desirable in the public interest to have such a question settled, refused a motion to quash the conviction. At the original hearing the defendants' counsel contended that they were not within the prohibition of the enactment, not being mechanics, or laborers, or workmen pursuing their ordinary calling.

<article title=" Chair of Architecture at McGill University " author="">

IN connection with the recent magnify— A Chair of Architecture at McGill University.

by Mr. W. C. McDonald to McGill University, Montreal, provision is made for the establishment of a chair and course of instruction in Architecture. We learn that there is some probability that arrangements can be made for the inauguration of this course at the next session, the necessary accommodation

THE London Builder tells of an architect — Troubles of A German Architect in Berlin who lately ran foul of <article title=" Troubles of A German Architect " author="">

Architect.

grief because of his endeavor to punish the city councilors for not appropriating seventy—five thousand dollars towards the building of a church in memory of the late Emperor of Germany. Because of this refusal, the architect had an inscription cut upon a bas—relief in a conspicuous place which informed the be— holder that the councilors of the city of Berlin were camels " and '' too mean " to contribute anything towards the building of the church. As the legend attracted a great deal of attention the city authorities soon heard of it, and determined to retaliate. It appears that the architect stood over the artist who made the inscription during the time he was carving it and the officials of the city, as an act of poetic justice, forced the architect to stand by while another artist cut away the obnoxious inscription. This punishment seems to have been all the authorities felt like inflicting, but the act is likely to cause some trouble, as the Berlin Institute of Architects seem to think the dignity of the profession has been insulted, and something must be done to satisfy the wounded honor.

<article title=" Aesthetic Teaching in Public Schools " author="">

IT is gratifying to see the Honorable Aesthetic Teaching in Public Schools Minister of Education recommending

The Public Schools.

the teachers in our public schools to pay



more attention to the cultivation of good taste in the school room. The Minister recognizes a truism in Keats' beautiful axiom, ' A thing of beauty is a joy forever," that stretches far beyond the percents of the school. Beauty, no matter in what form presented, leaves a beneficent impression on the youthful mind. The object of beauty may be a bunch of artistically arranged flowers, a picture, a painted glass window, a well-proportioned carved desk for the teacher, or a tastefully designed stove ---or one or more of the thousand and one things that go to make up a school's outfit. It matters not what it may be, so it is handsome in form, decoration or color; it will attract attention, and educate the eye and mind of the pupil. The school itself should be made attractive in appearance, and should be built on recognized lines of good taste, even though it be but an humble affair. By all means let us introduce into our schools all the aestheticism consistent with economy and efficient teaching. As the result of it boys will become better men, and it will add grace and dignity to the growing woman, and make life more pleasant to all concerned.

<article title=" Modern Tall Building Construction " author="">

THE modern tendency to run up buildings into —

Modern Tall Building Construction.	the clouds

	Construction.	is taxing the engineering abilities of our architects to their utmost. Structures ten, twelve, or twenty stories high, require much different treatment in their foundations than do buildings wit Ii less aspirations. By this

