55

<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



credit is not stated in the claim so registered, the lien shall cease to exist upon the expiration of ninety days after THE work or service has been completed or materials furnished or placed unless in the meantime an action shall have been commenced and a certificate registered as required by section 23 of this Act,

(R.	S. 0., c. 126, 5. 24.)

25 In the event of the death of a lien-holder his right of lien shall pass to his personal representatives and the right of a lien-holder may be assigned by any instrument in writing. R. 5. 0., 1887 c. 126, S. 25.

26.—(I) A lien may be discharged by a receipt signed by the claimant, or his agent duly authorized in writing, acknowledging payment, and verified by affidavit and registered; such receipt shall be numbered and entered by the Registrar like other instruments but need not be copied in an y book, but the Registrar shall enter against the entry of the lien in which the discharge relates the word 'discharged,' and state the registration number of such discharge; the fees shall be the same as for registering a claim of lien. R. S. 0. c. 126, s. 6.

(2)	Upon application the court or judge or other officer having power to try an action to realize a lien, may receive security or payment into court in lieu of the amount of the claim and may thereupon vacate the registration of the lien. R. S. 0.

c.	126 5. 30, 55. (v).

(3)	The court or such judge or other officer may vacate the said registration upon any other ground. R. S. 0., 1887, c. 126, 5. 30, 55. 7 and 8.

(4)	Where the certificate required by section 22 or section 23 of this Act has not been registered within the time limited, and an application is made in vacate the registration of a lien after the time for registration of the certificate required by section 22 or 23 of this Act, the applicant shall not he required to give notice of the application to the person claiming the lien, and the order vacating the lien may be made export upon production of the certificate of the proper Registrar's certifying the facts entitling the applicant to such order.

(5)	The taking of any security for, or the acceptance of any promissory note for, or the taking of any other acknowledgement of the claim, or the giving of time for the payment of the claim, or the taking of any proceedings for the recovery of the claim or the recovery of any personal judgment for the claim, shall not merge WAIS's, pay, satisfy, prejudice or destroy an y lien created by this Act. unless the lien-holder agrees in writing that it shall have that effect; provided, however, that a person who has extended the time for payment of any claim for which he has a lien under this Act to obtain the benefit of this sub-section shall commence an action to enforce such  within the time limited by this Act, and register a certificate as required by seconds 22 or 23 of this Act, but no further proceedings shall he taken in the action until the expiration of such extension of time; provided further. that notwithstanding such extension of time, such person may, when an action is commenced by any other person enforce a lien against the same property, prove and obtain payment of his claim in such action, as if no such extension had been given.

27.	Any lien-holder may at any time demand of the owner, or the agent, the terms of the contract or agreement with the contractor for and in respect of which the work, services or materials is or are performed or furnished or placed, and if such owner or his said agent shall at the time of such demand neglect or refuse to inform the person making such demand, of the terms of such contract or agreement, anti the amount due and unpaid upon such contract or agreement, or shall intentionally or knowingly, falsely state the terms of said contract or agreement, or the amount due or unpaid thereon, and if the person claiming the lien shall sustain loss by reason of such refusal or neglect or false statement, said owner shall be liable to him in an action therefor to the amount of such loss.

28.	The court or judge, or other officer having power in try an action to realize a lien, may on a summary application at any time before or after any action is commenced for the enforcement of such lien, make an order for the owner or his agent to produce and allow any lien holder in inspect any such contract, and may make such an order as to the costs of such application and order as may be just.

29.—(i) The liens created by this act may he realized by actions in the High Court according to the ordinary procedure of that court, excepting where the same is varied by this Act.

(2)	Without issuing a writ of summons, an action tinder this Act shall be commenced by filing in the proper office a statement of claim. verified by affidavit.

(3)	The statement of claim shall be served within ore month after ii is filed, hut a judge or other officer having power to try the action may extend the time for service thereof, and the time for delivering a statement of defense shall be the same as for entering an appearance in an action in the High Court

(4)	It shall not he necessary to make any lien holders parties defendant to the action, but all lien holders served with the notice of trial shall for all purposes be treated as if they were parties to the action.

30.	Any number of lien-holders, claiming liens on the same property, may join in

an action, and any action brought by a lieu-holder shall be taken to be brought on

behalf of all other lien-holders nit the property in question. See R.S.O., c. 126 s 30;

53 Vic, c. 37, s 39

31.	An action to enforce a lien may be tried by the Master in Ordinary, a local master of the High Court, an official referee or a judge of the County Court, in any country or judicial district in which the lands are situate; or by a judge of the High Court of Justice at any sitting of that court for the trial of actions.

32.	The Master in Ordinary, the local masters, official referees, and the County judges, shall have in addition to their ordinary powers, all the jurisdiction, powers and authority, of a Judge of the High Con' t and of the Master in Ordinary, to try, and otherwise completely dispose of, an action to realize a lien, and all questions arising in such action, including the giving or refusing of the costs he, hereinafter provided,

33.	(i) After the deliver y of the statement of defence where the plaintiff's claim is disputed, or after the time for delivery of defence in all other cases where it is desired to try tile action other titan at the ordinary sittings of the High Court, either party may apply to a judge or other officer who h s the power to try the action, to fix a day for the trial thereof, and the said judge, or other officer, shall give an appointment fixing the day and place of trial, and on the (lay fixed, or at such other day to which the trial may be adjourned, shall proceed to try the action, and all questions which arise therein, or which are necessary to lie tried, to completely dispose of the action and to adjust the rights and liabilities (If the persons appearing before him or upon whom the notice of trial has been served and at the trial, shall take all accounts, make all inquires and give all directions, and do all things necessary to try, and otherwise finally dispose of the action and of all matters, questions arid accounts arising in the action or at the trial, and to adjust the rights and liabilities of and give all necessary relief to all parties to the action or who have been served with the notice of trial, and shall embody all the results in the judgment.

(2)	The judge or officer who tries the action may order that the estate or interest charged with the lien may he sold, and when, by the judgment, a sale is directed on the estate or interest charged with the lien the judge or officer who tries the action may direct the sale to take place at any time after judgement allowing, however, reasortable time for advertising such sale.

(3)	The judge or officer who tries the action may also direct the sale of any materials and authorize the removal thereof. See R,S.O. 126,s 30, s.s.3 and 4

(4)	any liet-holder, who has not proved his claim at the trial of any action to enforce a lien, on application to the judge, or officer who tried the action such terms as to costs and otherwise as may be just, maybe let in to prose his claim at any time before the amount realized in the action for the satisfaction of liens has been distributed, and where such a claim is proved and allowed the judge or officer shall amend the judgment so as to include such claim therein.

(5)	When a sale is had, the Judge or officer with whose approbation the lands are sold shall make a report on sale and therein direct to whom the moneys in court shall be paid, and may add to the claim of the person conducting the sale his actual disbursements incurred in connection therewith, and where sufficient to satisfy the judgment and costs is not realized from the sale, he shall certify the amount of the deficiency and the names of the persons, with their amounts, who are entitled to recover the same, and the persons by the judgment adjudged to pay the same, and such persons shall be entitled to enforce the same by execution or otherwise as a judgment of the court.

(6)	Any lien-holder for an amount not exceeding $100, or any lien-holder not a party to the action, may attend in person at the trial of an action to enforce a lien, and on any proceedings in such action, or may be represented thereat or thereon by a solicitor or by an agent who is not a solicitor,

34.	The party obtaining an appointment fixing the day and place of trial shall, at least eight clear days before the day fixed for the trial, serve a notice of trial which may be in the form in the schedule to this Act, upon the solicitors for the defendants who appear by solicitors, arid on all lien-holders known to him, who have registered their liens as required by this Act, and on all other persons having any charge or incumbrance or claim on the said lands, who are tint parties, or who, being parties, appear personally in the said action, and such service shall be personal unless otherwise directed by the judge or officer who is to try the case, who may, in lieu of personal service, direct in what manner the notice of trial may be served.

35.	Where more than one action is brought to realize liens in respect of the same property, a judge or other officer having power to try such actions, may, on the application of any party to any one of such actions, or on the application of any other person interested, consolidate all such actions into the action, and may give the conduct of the consolidated action to arty plaintiff to whom in Iris discretion he sees fir. (See 56 Vic, c. 24, 5. 12.)

36.	Any lien-holder entitled to the benefit of the action may apply for the carriage of the proceedings, and the judge or any other officer having power to try the action, may thereupon make such an order, giving such lien-holder the carriage of the proceedings, arid such lien-holder shall for all purposes thereafter be the plaintiff in the action. See R.S,0. c. 126, 5. 30, 55. 2, and 53 Vic. c. 37, 5 26.)

37.	No fees in stamps or money shall be payable to any judge or other officer in any action brought to realize a lien under this act, nor on any filing, order, record or judgment, or other proceeding in such action, excepting that every person other than a wage earner shall, on filing his statement of claim where he is a plaintiff, or in pros log his claim where he is not a party plaintiff, pay in Stamps one dollar on every one hundred dollars, or fraction of one hundred dollars, of the amount of his claim up to one thousand dollars. (See 56 Vict, c. 24, 5. 18.)

38.	In all actions where the amount recovered by the judgment is $100 or less, the said judgment shall be final, binding, and without appeal, except that upon application within fourteen days after judgment is pronounced, to the judge or officer who tried the same, he may grant a new trial.

39.	In all actions where the amount recovered by the judgment is more than $100 but not more than $200 any party affected thereby may appeal therefrom to a Divisional Court, whose judgment shall be final, binding, and no appeal shall lie therefrom,

40.	In all other cases the same right to appeal shall exist as is given in actions tried without I a jury in the High Court,

41.	The costs of the action awarded in any action under this Act, by the judge or officer trying the action, to the plaintiffs and successful lien-holders shall not exceed in the aggregate an amount equal to twenty-five per cent, of the amount of the judgment besides actual disbursements, and shall be in addition to the amount of the judgment, and shall be apportioned and borne iii such proportion as the judge or officer who tries the action may direct.

 42. Where the costs are awarded against the plaintiff or other persons claiming the lien, such costs shall riot exceed an amount in the aggregate equal to twenty-five per cent. of the claim of the plaintiff and other claimants, besides actual disbursements and shall be apportioned and borne as the judge or said other officer may direct.

43.	In case the least expensive course is riot taken by a plaintiff under this Act the costs allowed to the solicitor shall in no case exceed what would have been incurred if the least expensive course had been taken. 56 Vic., c. 24, s. 13

44.	Where a lien is discharged or vacated under section 26 of this Act or when in an action judgment is given in favor of a lien in addition to the costs ((faction, the judge or said other officer may allow a reasonable amount for costs of drawing and registering a lien or for vacating the registration of the lien. R. 5. 0., 126, 5. 30, as. and 9.

45.	Excepting in actions tried by a judge of the High Court the judge or other officer who tries the action shall where money has been paid into court and the time for payment not arrives, forward a requisition for checks with a certified copy of his judgment, or when one is made of the report on sale, in the accountant of tile Supreme Court of Judicature, who shall upon receiving said requisition and copy of the judgment or report make nut and return to the said judge or officer cheques for the amounts payable to the persons specified in the requisition, and the said judge or officer on receipt of said cheques-hall distribute them to the persons entitled.

46.	No fees or stain s shall be payable on any cheques or proceedings to pay money into court or obtain money nut of court, in respect of a claim of lien, but sufficient postage stamp to prepay a return letter shall be enclosed with every requisition for cheques.

47.	All judgments in favor of lien-holders shall adjudge that tire person or persons personally liable for the amount of the judgment, shall pay any deficiency which may remain after sale of the property adjudged to lie sold, and whenever on a sale of and property to realize a lien under this act sufficient to satisfy the judgment arid costs is not realized then from, the deficiency inlay be recovered by execution against the property of such person or persons.

48.	Whenever in art action brought under the provisions of this Act any claimant shall fail for any reason to establish a valid lien he may nevertheless recover therein a personal judgment against the part)- or parties to the action for such sum or sums as may appear in be due to him from him or them and which he might recover in art action in contract against such party or parties.

49.	The forms in the schedule hereto, or firms similar thereto or to the like effect, ma)- be adopted in all proceedings tinder this Act,

50.	This act shall not apply no liens arising before the coming into force of this Act excepting that where no action has been commenced or proceeding instituted no realize a lien arising before the coming into force of this Act the procedure herein directed shall be adopted to realize the same.



51.—(1) Every mechanic or other person who has bestowed money or skill and materials upon any chattel or thing in the alteration arid improvement in its properties or for the purpose of imparting an additional value In it so as there to be entitled to a lien upon such chattel or thing for tine amount of value of the money or skill and materials best owed shall, while such lien exists, but not afterwards, in case the amount to which he is entitled remains unpaid for three months after the same ought to have been paid, has-c the right iii addition to all other remedies presided by law, to sell by auction rue chattel or thing in respect of which the lien exists, on giving one week's notice by advertisement in a newspaper published in the municipality in which the work was done, or in case there is no newspaper published inn such municipality then in a newspaper published nearest thereto, snaring the name of the person indebted the amount of the debt, a description of the chatte or thing to be sold, the time and place of sale, and the name of the auctioneer and leaving a like notice in writing at the last known place of residence (if any) of the owner, if he be a resident of such municipality.

(2) Such mechanic or other person shall apply the proceeds of tine sale in payment of tine amount due to him and the costs of advertising and sale, and shall upon application pay over any surplus no the person entitled thereto, 41 V., c, 17. s. 3.

52. Excepting ill 50 far as is necessary to preserve the liens and rights, causes of action and defences thereto arising or existing thereunder before the coming into force If this Act, the following Acts and parts of Acts shall not apply after the coming into force of this Act, and are hereby repealed

Chapter u26 of the Revised Statues of Ontario, 1887, and all amendments thereto. The Act passed in the 53rd year of Her Majesty's reign chaptered 36 and oil amendments thereto.

The Act passed in the 56th year of Her Majesty's reign, chaptered 24 amid all amendments thereto.





The Toronto School of Practical Science Engineering Society has elected the following officers for tire ensuing year President, C. F'. King Vice-President, H. S. Carpenter ; Treasurer A. 6.

Piper; Corresponding Secretary, H. L. Vercoe; Recording Secretary II. R. Stovel ; Librarian W. A. B. Hicks; Fourth Year Representative, J. A. De Cew; Third Year Representative M.

B.	Weeks; Second Year Representative, J. Shaw. C. MacBeth, J. A. Bow and T. J. Little were elected to "Varsity -, Editorial Board.

The reconstruction of tile new building for tile Montreal Street Railway Company has been completed The quest ion of strength has been made paramount to all other considerations The entire building is carried on steel columns which rest in concrete and brick foundations laid in gravel, and this load represents 13.4 tons per square foot Each floor, as well as the roof is formed of steel girders amid fifteen-inch hollow tile floor arches, covered with Portland cement tile whole being supported by steel columns which in turn are protected by hollow terra cotta tile.

