	<doctype type="text">58	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



MR. JOHN ALDRIDGE.

PRESIDENT TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

<article title=" PRESIDENT TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="Aldridge, John">

THE gentleman of whom the accompanying portrait is a good likeness is Mr. John Aldridge, president of the Toronto Builders' Exchange and a prominent builder of the city. He is a native of Scotland, having been born at Brocktenhurst, County of Hampshire, in 1851. At an early age he was apprenticed to the building trade with his father who carried on an extensive business. In 1871, when only 20 years old, he came to Toronto. At the commencement of the agitation that preceded the nine-hour movement in 1872 he removed to Peterborough. At this time the old wooden town, which was burned down, was being reconstructed as a brick town, and contractors found plenty of employment. In partnership with his brother he erected many of the buildings which exist to-day in that town. In 1878 he returned to Toronto, where he has since resided, and for the greater part of that period has been engaged in building. Among other buildings erected by him may be mentioned the following The Jesse Ketchum school ; the block at the corner of Vonge and Gloucester streets











































President Toronto Builders Exchange.





James Robertson & Co.'s factory, King street west the Crampon Corset Co.'s factory ; the Nasmith building Of King street, and the building lately occupied by the Empire Printing Company.

Mr. Aldridge was one of those who felt the necessity of a material change in the old Federated Association of Builders and Contractors, and advocated the formation of an association on more modern lines and in keeping with similar institutions in the United States. The ultimate result was the formation of the Builders' Exchange, with its working sections. Mr. Aldridge was elected a director on the Board of the Exchange at its organization, and has filled the position continuously ever since until last January, when he was elected to the office of President. He has always taken a deep interest in the success of the Exchange, and well deserves the honor which has been conferred upon him by its

members.



Mr. Aidridge was one of the promoters of the organization of the Trades and Labor Council, in which society his executive ability was also recognized by his election as chief officer.

READY-MADE MORTAR.

It has long been the custom in many European cities, particularly in Germany, for builders to purchase their mortar ready-made from persons exclusively engaged in the manufacture of the material, instead of making it for themselves on the site of the building, as is the custom in Canada. Of late the European method has come into use in some of the larger American cities, and has been found to be more satisfactory than the old plan.

The writer had a conversation recently with a well-known contractor of Toronto, who proposes to try the experiment of manufacturing and supplying mortar to the builders of that city. It is beyond question that the material manufactured in this way should be superior in quality 10 that made under the present system, without proper facilities and by inexperienced workmen.

The present method is necessarily expensive and much of a nuisance to the builder and the public. No doubt builders would be glad enough to be rid of it if a more satisfactory one were presented to them the only apparent obstacle in the way of the success of this new manufacturing venture is the inactivity in building enterprise prevailing at the present time, but which it is hoped will soon pass away.





The Prismatic Glass Co., of Toronto, has increased its capital stock to $25,000.



It is said that the Williams' stone quarry near Stonewall, Man., will be operated this summer on an extensive scale.



Mr. John Harrison, of Owen Sound, Ont., has commenced the manufacture of mammals for t he decoration of fireplace 



Granite is now being quarried in Shelburne county, N. S., for export to Scotland. Formerly granite was imported from Scot -land for construction works in that province.



Messrs. Tayte M eating & Co., of St. George N. B., are Supplying 20,000 feet of' New Brunswick red granite for the construction of the Museum of Natural History at Manhattan Square New York City, The granite will be shipped to New York by schooner.



A company is being formed at Ottawa, Ont., with a capital of $ 1oo,ooo, for the establishment of a manufactory of wood mantels and fancy woodwork. Among the promoters are Messrs. II. N. Hate, J. C. Brennan, C. A. Douglas, D. O'Connor, A. McKinnon, Sproute, Dowsley, and others.



The Whitton Granite Quarry Company, with a capital of $50,000 has been incorporated to deal in granite, stone and other building materials. The promoters are Joseph Boldue, and G. H. Lacourciere, of St. Victor de Tring; Rufus H. Pope, of Cookshire L. I. Frechette, of St. Ferdinand d'Halifax; Wilfred Trudeau, of Fall River, and D. Alfred Roy, of New Bedford, all of the province of Quebec.



There are about sixty three-cement works in the whole of Germany. The Rhine is the principal centre for this manufacture, but in the neighborhood of Hamburg there are three or four in operation for the production of the article. The annual production of Germany amounts to nearly 11 ,ooo,ooo barrels. The largest customers for this article of trans-Atlantic countries are the United States, Brazil, Chile and Venezuela. The exportation to Great Britain and British possessions is comparatively small. The following table gives approximately the quantity and value exported to America: United States, 1,386,872 cwt., £68,000; Brazil, 449,340 cwt., £40,200; Chile, 131,000 cwt., £13,000; Venezuela, 103,ooo cwt., £9,800.





We have received from Messrs. Copp Clark & Co., the publishers' Canadian agents, a copy of a book entitled ''Electric Wiring,' by Mr. Russell Robb, published by Messrs. McMillan & Co., New York. This book is designed for the use of architects, underwriters and the owners of buildings. Considerable space has been given to the National Code of Rules for electric wiring, reasons being given for each rule, together with explanations of the meanings of the technical terms and phrases used. The book appears to be well suited for its purpose and will doubtless be found of practical benefit to the classes in whose interests it has been compiled.

