<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	53



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

<article title=" CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS " author="">

AN ordinary meeting of this Society was held on March 12th, the President, Mr. Herbert Wailis, in the chair.

The following were elected into the Society :Associate members—Walter Jos. Francis, Deer Park, Ont. John W. Harris, Winnipeg, Man. Students William I. Bishop,. Montreal Hamilton Lindsay, Kingston, Ont. The following were transferred from the class of student to the class of associate member :—John Edward Schwitzer and Alex. W. Spence, Ottawa Alfred J. Stevens, Moncton, N. B.

At this meeting the discussion on Mr. W. Bell Dawson's paper On ''A New Method for the Design of Retaining Walls" was continued, and a paper on "The Effects of Engineering Works on Water Currents," by Cyrus Carroll, M. Can. Soc. C. E., was read.

At the ordinary meeting of the Society held on the 26th of March, the President, Mr. Herbert Wallis, occupied tile chair. The evening was taken up in the discussion of the resolution

That engineering works shall be constructed by day's work under the immediate direction of a civil engineer, instead of being done through a contractor."



THE AUGE BILL.

<article title=" THE AUGE BILL " author="">

By request of a number of subscribers to the Architect AND builder, I forward herewith for publication a copy of the amendments to the Auge Bill passed at the last session of the Quebec Legislature, as follows

I. Paragraph 7 of article 2,009 of the Civil Code, as replaced 57 Victoria, chapter 46, section I, is replaced by the following

7.	The claim of the laborer, workman, architect and builder, subject to the provisions of article 2,013.

2. Articles 2013, 201 3a, 20013b, 2013c, 2013d, and 2013e of the said Code, as enacted by section 2 of the said act, is replaced by the following:

'' 2013. The laborer, workman, architect and builder have a right of preference over the vendor and other creditors, on the immovable, but only upon the additional value given to the immovable by the work done.

in case the proceeds are insufficient to pay tile labor, workman, architect and builder, or in cases of contestation, the additional value given by the work is established by a relative valuation effected ill the manner prescribed in the Code of Civil Procedure.

The aforesaid privileged claim is paid only upon the amount established as being the additional value given to the immovable by the work done.

" 2 013a. The privilege of the laborer, workman, architect and builder ranks as follows

1. The laborer;

2. The workman;

3. The architect;

4. The builder.

"2013b. The right of preference or privilege upon the immovable exists as follows



t. Without registration of the claims in favor of the debt due the laborer, workman and the builder during the whole time they are occupied at the work or while such work lasts, as the case may be; and with registration, provided it be registered within the thirty days following the date upon which the building has be-conic ready for the purpose for which it is intended.

2. But such right of' preference or privilege shall exist only for one year from the dale of the registration, unless a stilt he taken in the interval, or unless a longer delay for payment has been stipulated in the contact.

20l3c. The preserved ion of tile privilege is subject to the following conditions

t. The laborer or workman must give notice in writing or verbally, before a wit ness, to the proprietor of t he immovable that they have not been paid for their work at and for each term of

payment.



Such notice may be given by One of the employers in the name of all t he other laborers and workmen who are not paid, hot in such case the notice must he in writing.

2, The architect and builder shall likewise inform the proprietor of the immovable or his agents ill writing of the contracts which they have made with the chief contractor, within eight days from the signing of die same.

2013d. In order to meet the privileged claims of the laborer and workman, the proprietor of tile immovable may retain an amount equal to that which he has paid or will be called upon to



pay, according to tile notices he has received, so long as such claims rental unpaid



201 3e, In the event of a difference of opinion between the credit or and tile debtor, with respect to the amount due, tile creditor shall, without delay, inform the proprietor of the immovable, by means of written notice which shall also mention the name of the creditor, the name of the debtor the amount claimed, and the nature of the claim.

Tile proprietor then retains the amount in dispute until notified of an amicable settlement or a judicial decision.

2013f. The sale to a third party by the proprietor of the immovable Or his agents, or the Payment of the whole or a portion

of the contract price cannot in any way affect the claims of persons who have a privilege under article 2013, and who have complied with the requirements of articles 2013a, 201 3b, 2013c, and

2103.



"2,013g. The supplier of materials shall before delivery of the materials, give notice in writing to the proprietor of the immovable, of the contracts made by him for the delivery of materials, and mention the cost thereof and the immovable for which they are intended



2013h. In order to meet the privileged claims of' the suppliers of material the proprietor of the immovable retains, on the coil— tract price, an amount equal to that mentioned in the notices he has received.

2013i. The notices mentioned in article 2,013g have the effect of an attachment by garnishment tin the contract price.

Within the three months following the notice given in accordance with article 2,01 3a, the interested parties must adopt legal steps, by proceeding against the proprietor of the immovable, to have the debtor condemned and the seizure declared valid, otherwise the latter lapses.

201 3j. In the event of t lie proprietor of the immovable erecting the building himself without the intermediary of any contractor, the notices mentioned in article 201 3g may be given to the person or persons who lend or may lend money to the person building, and thereupon t lie latter shall, mutates mutandis be subject to the provisions of the preceding articles.

20I3k. No transfer of any portion of the contract price or of the amount borrowed, as the case may be, either before or during the execution of the work, can lie set up against the said suppliers of materials ; nor can ally payment, exceeding the Costs of the work done according to a certificate of the architect or superintendent of the works, affect their rights.

2013i. 0n notice given to the proprietor in virtue of article

2013g, and registered according to article 2103, the suppliers of materials shall have a hypothecate privilege which shall rank after the hypotheses previously registered and the privileges created by this act."

3. Articles 2103 and 2103a of the said Code, as enacted by section 3 of the said act, are replaced by the following article

2103. The privileges of the persons mentioned in article 2013 dates, in the cases mentioned in the first clause of article 2013b, only from the registration, within the proper delay, at the registry office of the division in which is situated the immovable affected by the inscription, of a notice or memorial, drawn up according to form A, with a deposition of the creditor, sworn to before a justice of tile peace or a commissioner of the Superior Court, setting fort h the nature and the amount of the claim, and describing the im nioveable so affected.

(Concluded on Page 56)

