<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT



THE ONTARIO LIEN LAW OF 1896.

<article title=" THE ONTARIO LIEN LAW OF 1896" author="">

AN Act was passed by the Ontario Legislature at the recent session making certain amendments and additions to the lien law respecting mechanics, wage earners, and others. Below will bc found the Act in full as revised

<article title=" THE MECHANICS AND WAGE-EARNERS' LIEN ACT " author="">

1.	This Act may be cited as THE MECHANICS AND WAGE-EARNERS' LIEN ACT,

1896. R. S. O. 1887 C. 126, a. I

2.	Where the following words occur in this Act, or in the schedules hereto, they shall be construed in the manner hereinafter mentioned, unless a contrary intention appears

(t)	"Contractor" shall mean a person contracting with or employed directly by the owner or his agent for the doing of work or placing or furnishing materials for any of the purposes mentioned in this Act.

(2)	"Sub-contractor" shall mean a person not contracting with or employed directly by the owner or his agent for the purposes aforesaid, but contracting with or employed by a contractor, or under him by another sub-contractor.

3)	"Owner" shall extend to and include any person, firm, association, body corporate or politic, including a municipal corporation and railway company having any estate or Interest in the lands upon or in respect of which the work or service is done, or materials are placed or furnished, at whose request and upon whose credit or on whose behalf or with whose private or consent or for whose direct benefit any such work or service is performed or materials are placed or furnished, and all persons claiming under him or them whose rights are acquired after the work or service in respect of which the lien is claimed  commenced or the materials furnished image beets commenced to be furnished. R.S.O. 1887, c. 126, 5. 2.

(41 "Person" shall extend to and include a body corporate or politic, a firm, partnership or association.

5)	"Material" shall include ever y kind of moveable property.

(6)	" Registry Office" shall include Land Titles Office.

3.	Where work or service is done or materials are furnished upon or in respect of the lands of any married woman with the privacy and consent of her husband, he shall be conclusively presented to be acting as well for himself and so as to bind his own interest, and also as the agent of such married woman for the purposes of this Act, unless the person doing such work or service or furnishing such materials shall have had actual notice to the contrary before doing such work or furnishing such materials.

4.	No agreement shall be held to deprive anyone otherwise entitled to a lien under this Act, and not a party to the agreement, of the benefit of the lien, but the lien shall attach, notwithstanding such agreement. R.S.O. c. 126, s. 3.

5.	Unless he signs an express agreement to the contrary, any person who performs any work or service upon or in respect of, or places or furnishes any materials to be used in making, constructing, erecting, fitting, altering, improving or repairing any erection. building, railway, land, wharf, pier, bulkhead, bridge, trestlework, vault, mine well, excavation, or fence, sidewalk, paving, fountain, fishpond, drain, sewer, aqueduct, roadbed, way, fruit and ornamental trees, or the appurtenances to any of them, for any owner, contractor or sub-contractor, shall by virtue thereof have a lien for the price of such work, service or materials upon the erection, building, railway, land, wharf, pier, bulkhead, bridge, trestlework, vault, mine well, excavation, fence, sidewalk, paving, fountain, fishpond, drain, sewer, aqueduct. roadbed, way. fruit and ornamental trees, or appurtenances thereto, and cite lands occupied thereby or enjoyed there with, or upon which tile said work or service is performed, or upon which such materials are placed, or furnished to be used, and limited in amount to the such justly due to tile person entitled to the lien and to the sum justly owing (excepting as herein provided) by the owner.

6.	The lien shall attach upon the estate or interest of the owner as defined by this Act in time erection, building, railway, land, wharf, pier, bulkhead, bridge, trestlework, vault, Imline, well, excavation, fence, sidewalk, paving, fountain, fishpond, drain, sewer, aqueduct, roadbed, way, fruit and ornamental trees and the appurtenances thereto, upon or in respect of which the work or service is per-formed, or the materials placed or furnished to be used, and the lands occupied thereby or enjoyed therewith See R.S.O., C, 126, 5 5.

(2)	In sea where the estate or interest charged by the lien is leasehold the fee simple may also, with the consent of time owner thereof, be subject to said lien, provided such consent is testified by the signature of succumb owner upon the claim of lien at the time of the registering thereof, and duly verified. R.S.O.

1877, C. 126, a. 5, s.S. 2.

(3)	In case the land upon or in respect of which any work or service is performed, or upon or in respect of which materials are placed or furnished to he used, is encumbered by a prior mortgage or other charge, and the selling value of the land is increased by the work or service, or by the furnishing or placing of the materials, the lien under this Act shall be entitled to rank upon such in-cm eased vatic in priory to time mortgage or other charge. R.S.O. 1877, C. 126, 5. 5, s.s. 3.

(41 The provisions of this or any other section of this Act affecting railways under the control of tile Dominion of Canada are only intended to apply so far as the Legislative Assembly of this Province has authority or jurisdiction in regard thereto

7.	Where any of the property upon which a lien is given by this Act is wholly or partly destroyed by fire, any money received by reason of an y insurance thereon by an owner or prior mortgagee or charge shall take time place of time properly so destroyed, and shall be subject to the claims of ail persons for liens to the same extent as if such moneys were realized by a sale of such property in an action to enforce a lien

8.	Save as herein provided the lien shall not attach so as to make the owner liable for a greater sum than cite sum payable by the owner to the contractor.

RSO. C. 126, s. 10.

9.	Save as herein provided where the lien is claimed by any other person than the contractor, cite amount which may tine claimed in respect thereof shall be limited to the amount owing to cite contractor or sub-contractor or other person for whom the work or service has been done or the material have been placed or furnished. R.S.O. 126, s. 8.

1O.—(1) In all cases an owner shall as any contract progresses, deduct from any payments to be made, and retain for a period of thirty days after the complied. lion or abandonment of the contract twenty per cent, of the value of the work, service and materials actual done, placed or furnished as defined by section of this Act, and such values s all be calculated on the basis of time price to be paid for the whole contract; provided that where a contract exceeds $15,ooo cite amount to be retained shall be fifteen per cent instead of twenty per cent., and the liens created by this Act shall be a charge upon the amounts directed to be retained by this section.

(2)	All payments up to eighty per cent. for eighty-five per cent, where cite contract price exceeds $15,ooo) of such value made in good faith by an owner to a contractor, or by a contractor to a sub-contractor, or by one sub-contractor to another sub-contractor, before notice in writing of such lien given by the person claiming the lien to the owner, contractor or the sub-contractor, as the case may be, shall operate as a discharge pro tall to of the lien creamed by this Act.

11, In case an owner or contractor chooses to make payments to an y persons referred to in the fifth section of this Act for or on account of any debts justly due to them for work or service done or for materials placed or furnished to be used as therein mentioned, and shall within three days afterwards give, by letter or otherwise, written notice of such payment to the contractor or his agent, or to the sub-contractor or his agent, as the case may be, such payments sits I, as between the owner and the contractor or as between the contractor and the subcontractor, as time case may be, he deemed to be payments to the contractor or sub-contractor, as cite case may be, on his contract generally, but not so as to affect the percentage to be retained by the owner, as provided by section to of this Act.

12.—(I) The lien created by this Act shall have priority over all judgments, executions, assignments, attachments, garnishments and receiving orders recovered, issued or made after such lien arises, and over all payments or advances made on account of any conveyance or mortgage after notice in writing of such lien to the person making such payments or after registration of such lien as hereinafter provided. (See 56 Vic., C. 24. 5. and R.S.O. C. 126, 5. 31.)

(2) In case of-an agreement for the purchase of land, and the purchase money or part thereof is unpaid and no conveyance made to the purchaser, the purchaser shall, for the purposes of this Act and within the meaning thereof, be deemed a mortgagor and the seller a mortgagee.

(3)	Excepting where it is otherwise declared by this Act, no person entitled to a lien on any property or to a charge on any moneys under this Act shall be en-

AND BUILDER

titled to any priority or preference over another person of the same class entitled to a lien or charge on such property or moneys under this Act, and each class of lien holders, except where it is otherwise declared by this Act, shall rank parri passu for their several amounts, and time proceeds of any sale shall, subject as aforesaid, be distributed among them pro rats according to their several classes and tights.

13.—(1) Every mechanic or laborer whose lien is for work done for wages shall, to the extent of thirty days' wages, have priority over all other liens derived through time same contractor or subcontractor to the extent of and on the twenty per cent, or fifteen per cent., as time case may be, of the contract price directed to be retained by section to of this Act. to which the contractor or sub-contractor through whom such lien is derived and entitled, and all such mechanics and laborers shall rank parri passu on said twenty per cent. (See R. S. O. C. 126, 5. 9, 55. 3.)

(2)	Every wage earner shall be entitled to enforce a lien in respect of time contract not completely fulfilled. (See 56 Vict, C. 24, a. 5, as. 2.)

(3)	In case of the contract not having been completely fulfilled written the lien is claimed by wage earners, the percentage aforesaid shall be calculated on the work done or materials furnished by the contractor or sub-contractor by whom such wage-earners are employed. 56 Vict. C. 24, 5. 5, 55. I.

(4)	Where the contractor or sub-contractor makes default in completing his con tract the percentage aforesaid shall not, as against a wage earner claiming a lien under this Act, be applied to time completion of the contract or for any other purpose by the owner or contractor, nor to the payment of damages for the non-completion of the contract by the contractor or sub-contractor, nor in payment or satisfaction of any claim of any kind against the contractor or sub-contractor. (See 56 Vict. C. 24, 5. 5, 55. 3.)

(5)	Every device by arty owner, contractor or sub-contractor, adopted to defeat the priority given to wage earners for their wages by this Act shall as respects such wage earners, be null and void. 56 Vict. Call. 24, sec. t.

(6)	"Wages shall mean money earned by a mechanic or laborer for work done, whether by the day or as piece work.

14.	Nothing in this Act contained shall apply to make legal any payment made for the purpose of defeating or impairing a claim for a lien arising or existing under this Act and all such payments shall be taken to be null and void. (See

R.	5. 0. C. 126, 5. 9.)

15.—(I) During the continuance of a lien no portion of the materials affected thereby shall be removed 10 the prejudice of the lien and any attempt at such removal may be restrained on application to the High Court, or to a judge or officer having power to try an action to realize alien under this Act. R. 5. 0. c.

126, 5 15.

(2)	The court, judge or officer to whom any such application is made, may make such order as to time costs of and incidental to the application and order as he deems just.

(3)	When any material is actually brought upon any land to be used in connection with such land for any of the purposes enumerated in section of this Act, mite same shall not be subject to execution or other process to enforce any debt (other than for the purchase thereof) due by the person furnishing time same.

(See R 5. 0. C. 126, 5. 31.)

16.	A claim for lien applicable to the case may be registered in the registry office of time registry division or in the Land Titles office in which the land is situated and shall state:

(a)	Time name and residence of mime (person claiming the lien) and of cite owner of the property to be charged or of cite person whom the person claiming the lien, or his agent, believes to he the owner of the property to be charged) of the person for whom and upon whose credit the work (or service) is done, or materials furnished or placed, and the tine or period within which the santé was, or was not be, done or furnished or placed.

(b)	A short description of the work (or service) done or materials furnished or place or to be furnished or placed.

(c)	The sum claimed as due or to become due.

(d)	The description of the land to be charged sufficient for the purpose of registration.

(e)	The date of expiry of the period of credit (if any) agreed by mite lienholder for payment for his work (or service) or materials where credit has been given.

(2)	The claims may be in one of the forms given in the schedule to this Act and shall be verified by the affidavit of the person claiming time lien or of his agent or assignee having a personal knowledge of the matters required to be verified, and the affidavit of the agent or assignee shall state that he has such knowledge. R.

5.	0. C. 126, s. 16.

(3)	Where a lien is registered against the lands of a railway company it shall he sufficient description of mite said lands to refer to the same as the lands of audit railway company in the county where the claim arose as described and shown on the plan of the said railway registered under The Railway Act.

17.	A claim for lien may include claims against any number of properties, and any number of persons claiming liens upon the same property, ma y unite therein, but where more than one lien is included in one claim each lien shall be verified by affidavit as provided in section 16 of this Act. (R. 5. 0. C. 126, 5. 19.)

18.	(i) A substantial compliance with sections 16 and 17 of this Act shall only be required, and no lien shall be invalidated by reason of failure to comply with any of the requisites of sections 16 and 17 of this Act unless in the opinion of mite court or judge or officer who has power to try an action under this Act, the owner, contractor or sub-contractor, mortgagee or other person, as the case may be, is prejudiced thereby, and then only to the extent to which he is thereby prejudiced.

(2) Nothing in this section contained shall be coustrued as dispensing with registration of the lien requited by this Act.

19.—The registrar, upon payment of his fee, shall register the claim so that the same may appear as an incumbrance against the land therein described. R. 5. 0. 1887, C. 126, 5. 18, s.s. t.

(2) The fee for registration shall be twenty-five cents. If several persona join in one claim, the registrar small have a further fee of (ten) Cents for every person after the first. 45 Vic. c. 15, a. mm.

3, The registrar shall not be bound to copy in any registry book an y claim or affidavit, but he shall number each claim, and shall insert in the alphabetical and abstract indexes the like particulars as in other cases; he only describe the nature of the instrument as" Mechanics' Lien" 45 Vic.c. 15,s. mi.

20—-Where a claim is so registered, the person entitled to the lien shall be deemed a purchaser pro canto, and within the provisions of The Registry Act, 1893, but except as herein otherwise provided, The Registry Act, 1893, shall not apply to any lien arising under this Act. R. 5. 0. 1887, C. 126, S. 19.

21.— A claim for lien by a contractor or sub-contractor may be registered before or during the performance of the contract or without thirty days after the completion thereof.

(2)	A claim for lien for materials may be registered before or during the furnishing or placing thereof or within thirty days after the furnishing or placing of the last material so furnished or placed.

(3)	A claim for lien for services may be registered at any time during the performance of the service or within thirty days after the completion of the service.

(4) A claim for Len for work may line registered at any time during mite work or within thirty days after the last day's work for which the lien is claimed R. 5. 0. 126, 5. 20 and sec. 31 in part.

22.	Every lien which is not duly registered under the provisions of this Act shall absolutely cease to exist on the expiration of the time here in before limited for the registration thereof unless in the mean time an action is commenced to realize the claim, or in which the claim may be realized under the provisions of this Act, and a certificate thereof issued in the manner required by section 52 of The Registry Act, 1893, is dimly registered in the Registry Office of the Registry Division wherein the lands in respect of which the lien is claimed are situate.

R.	5. 0. 1887, C. 126, 5. 22.

23.—I) Every lien which has been duly registered under the provisions of this Act shall absolutely cease to exist after the expiration of ninety days after the work or service has been completed or materials have been furnished or placed, or the expiry of the period of credit, where such period is mentioned, in the claim of lien registered, unless in the mean time an action is commenced to realize the claim under the provisions of this Act or an action is commenced in which the claim may be realized under the provisions of this Act, and a certificate thereof issued in the manner required by section 52 of The Registry Act, 1893, 15 duly registered in the Registry Office of the Registry Division or in time land titles office wherein the lands in respect of which the lien is claimed are situate. R. S.

0.	1887, C. 126, S. 23.

(2) The registration of a lien shall cease to have any effect at time expiration of six months from the registration thereof, unless the lien shall be again registered within the said period, except, in the meantime proceedings have been inaptitude to realize the claim and a certificate thereof has been duly registered in the proper registry or land titles office. 56 ViC., C. 24, 5. 19.

24. If there is no period of credit, or if the date of the expiry of the period of

