<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" STUDENTS' AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S COMPETITION " author="">

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" STUDENTS' AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S COMPETITION.

THE publisher invites from architectural students and draughtsmen, other than practising architects, designs for front cover page for the New Year (1897) Number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Designs must be rendered either with pen and perfectly black ink or with brush in sepia on a sheet of white drawing paper or card-board, drawn to the size or 22 X 14 inches, and capable of being reduced to 7 X 11 inches. The wording to appear on the design is at follows



"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



NEW NEAR NUMBER. 1897. TORONTO, CANADA."

<article title=" NEW NEAR NUMBER. 1897. TORONTO, CANADA " author="">

Drawings must be marked only with the motto of the author, and accompanied by the motto, full name and address of the author, in scaled envelope, must be sent charges paid, addressed to the publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Toronto, so as to reach this office on or before o'clock p. m. on Monday, the 6th of June next.



This competition will be decided by a majority vote or a committee of architects to be appointed for that purpose by the Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects and of the Ontario Association of Architects. The decision of this committee will be final.



If two or more suitable designs are submitted a prize of $1o.oo will be given to the author of the one awarded first position and $5.00 to the one awarded second place. The right is reserved to withhold the prizes if two or more suitable designs are not submitted. The right is also reserved to publish any of the designs submitted.



NOTE. This competition is announced with the object of testing somewhat outside of the lines of their every day work the artistic skill of Canadian students and draughtsrnen. It is hoped that the response will be generous and earnest, and the result satisfactory.





SKETCHING COMPETITIONS IN THE SECOND CLASS OF THE SCHOOL OF FINE ARTS, PARIS.

By J. 0. MARCHAND.

<article title=" SKETCHING COMPETITIONS IN THE SECOND CLASS OF THE SCHOOL OF FINE ARTS, PARIS " author="Marchand, J. O.">

"AN equal entrain etiquette 'emulation If these competitions have provoked this sincere expression, fallen from the lips of the celebrated 'patron" of H. H. Rihardson, I feel assured that I am dealing with a subject that has interested to the utmost, scores of young artists.

These competitions, which last twelve hours and are made "en loge," that is in one of the spacious class rooms of the school, divided into compartments to accommodate but one pupil, take place every two months, and have for object to develop the artistic sense of the pupils and to train them in grasping in as short a time as possible the spirit of a program and of a plan parti" (standard plan.)

At 9.30 a. m. the pupils are closeted in the loges and at 10 o'clock the program which has been prepared by the professor of theory, Monsieur Guadet, who replaces Monsieur Guillaume, is distributed immediately every pupils attention is concentrated on the program before him, and each endeavors to find a plan or the standard plan if not the solution of the program. If the program calls for an interesting facade such as that required for a museum or an athenaeum, the plan is worked on the breadth if, on the contrary the plan requires several dispositions on the axis, such as is required in an insane asylum or a thermal establishment the plan is worked on the length.

With this as a starting point we commence by grouping the

 studying it in detail and scaling the sizes of the different rooms required, and then a clear tracing of it is made, bringing

out the most important motives of construction, till the last study present a satisfactory arrangement and an harmonious whole, after which we pass on to the facade which sometimes is of minor importance in the programs of Monsieur Guadet.

Formerly under the direction of Monsieur Guillaume the "esquisses esquisses" as they are called at the school, possessed a more artistic sense in themselves, in that less importance was attached to the plan and their merit consisted mainly in the beauty and rendering of the studies of the facade but all this had the inconvenience of rendering the sketches devoid of clever ness, and of offering nothing interesting judged from the research point of view a rendering had but to bc well done and effective and one could count upon a mention. This Came to an end with the Guadet regime—all the spirit of the program resting on the study of the plan and of its arrangements—and for my part I think the last mentioned is more logical, in that they form a sort of introductory exercise to pass into the first class where the real drill in design and the serious study of planning begins.

Once the studies are completed, the final rendering is taken up, and here commences the amusing part of the competition. From all sides is heard the cries of "charrette charrette ! which indicates that the time for closing is drawing near. Those who take

part in the competition for the first time get discouraged and abandon it, while the most persevering work steadily at it in their loge. The most clever get ,through before the appointed time but every one feels nervous, and soon the guardian shouts '' on ferme on ferme ! —( closing closing )-— and all competitors run in the direction of the guardian—in—chief to deliver to him his

project, whether completed or not.

The sketches are then exhibited in the Melpomene Hall, where every pupil goes for a week to compare his projet' with that of other competitors. Sometimes it loses in interest considerably, by its smallness of scale and its arrangement as a whole, and also by the "parti" adopted, by indication, and by the rendering.

These exhibitions do a good deal towards the advancement Of the pupils and teach them many lessons. For my part I have been many a time disappointed by the showing my projet

when placed side by side with those of other competitors while it seemed satisfactory enough when in the loge, it lost in value either by its smallness and meanness or by its lack of air when exhibited.

The competitions arc judged by the heads of "ateliers." Of two hundred pupils who commence the '' projet,'' only about one hundred render, while seven or eight only succeed in obtaining a mention, which mention counts as a value for admission into the

first class.



I hereunder give one of the recent programs proposed by Monsieur Guadet for A Parishional Church accompanied on separate sheet by the sketch submitted by myself, which will convey an idea to the readers of the " CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND builder of the nature of these ' esquisses esquisses" as practised in the school. The sketches are generally rendered in pencil and color or washed, but a rough tracing in black and white had in this instance to be made in order to publish it in this journal.



Competition OF THE 4TH DECEMBER, 1895.—" A PARISHIONAL

CHURCH."



'[his church erected in a fashionable quarter of a large city, would comprise a nave, aisles and chancel, with or without transept numerous chapels for particular services, and one principal chapel of the Holy Virgin; two vestries, one for the clergy and marriages, and the other for attendants of the church organ tribune. The accommodation for the catechism class, the members of the choir, etc , would be in the basement. The church can be preceded by a porch forming carriage way, and will also have side entrances, and one or two spires. The ceiling will be vaulted and the roof will be entirely built above the vaulting.

The ground available for this church which is isolated on all sides, has for largest dimension (length) 120 metres (365 feet). The plan, transverse Section (parallel o facade) and facade will be made to the scale of O.M. 0015 to the metre.

J.	GUADET,



Professor of Theory.

Paris, 4th December, 1895.





Mr. John Shanklin, a well—known contractor, who had resided in Toronto for. sixty-three years, died at his borne a fortnight ago. Deceased was born in Ireland in 1827, and came to Toronto when six years of age.

