<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER  57

and balustrade hi-caking round it——anything but a foolish invent ion.

'The greatest success among tire recent buildings in the city  Mr. Beicher's Institute of Chartered Accountants—is good English renaissance. Its beauty is in its scale even in the carving, and though now beautiful in its whiteness it should be still beautiful when blackened.

The blackening of a cut stone building is not by any means uniform hut is subject to accidents from the varying exposure of the surfaces to wet and currents of air. The result is, in the tipper parts of the buildings, an arrangement of scoured white on exposed surfaces and black deposit in quirks and quiet corners that could not he bettered if done intentionally. The effect of columns is peculiarly favored by this process, and all bold work is favored, hut t he mean is only made meaner. St. Pauls scents to have gained rather than lost beauty from a couple of centuries of soot. There is a capriciousness about the lines of scouring and marking that suggest eddies caused by external influence and suggest a danger in t lie tall buildings that are growing up round the church yard. An alteration in t lie course of the prevailing eddies so as to deposit black on what is now white would spoil perhaps permanently the beauty of the present arrangement.

After coming to the conclusion I have stated about the renaissance I went to Paris and was pleased to believe I had found there a street architect rue which had extracted from the renaissance reasonable elements which produced its good qualities without its follies. In this respect the ordinary street architecture is a better example than higher flights of individual ambit on There is little in it but good proportion and the detail is applied so as to help this rather than he a source of interest in itself. Each opening is surrounded by an architrave and there arc string courses and a cornice. All of these are built as blocks and planed afterwards, for they have at Paris the supreme advantage of an easily worked and yet durable stone. As a consequence there is also much carving, but used generally in a temperate manner, as finish rather than adornment. The stone is white arid remains white, for though there is too much smoke hanging over Paris to allow of its being seen well from adjacent heights, the smoke does not seem to obscure the sunshine in the city or blacken the  buildings

The wall surfaces of buildings of an inferior class, if not those of the better class, are usually I fancy rough brick plastered and the stone is used only to trim openings, but there is no noticeable difference in the appearance and the total effect of these continuous white buildings is very beautiful. When summer comes arid the trees on the boulevards are green, the streets must be many degrees more beautiful than when I saw them.

There was a tendency in the newer quarters of Paris, arid in the suburbs, to abandon the simplicity of this old fashioned building and seek more bizarre effects but though the individual perhaps appears here, there is no departure from the accepted type. The fact is that France has a living style of architecture. The manner of building is traditional and the results conform to type.

I made a note of the construction of a commonplace house which I saw in the process of erection in a small country town, and which I considered to be a typical example. The house was of two storeys below the roof. The external walls were of rough stonework for plastering The openings were trimmed with stone in the front of the building and with brick at the back, set out so as to project beyond the plaster line. The space between the front arid rear walls was 32 feet. It was sub-divided by a partition wall of brick which was r6 inches in the cellar, but for tire two storeys above only 4 inches. It carried the ends of iron beams running from the front and rear walls which carried a floor of hollow bricks. The roof was not yet on this building, hut would probably be of tiles fastened to wooden laths.

Though t he style is traditional the materials are modern. 1n deed it seemed to me that one of the evidences of the living character of French architecture is the straightforward way in which they use iron. It is commonly used to span wide openings, sonic— times with an arch Over it, sometimes it acts as support for a stone lintel. But I was most impressed with the excellent spirit of the French, by the way they expose iron in roofs and ceilings where it must look well. Sometimes they come out of this well, sometimes the result is crude, but it at any rate appeals to one as a spirited effort.

Whatever view may he taken of either the form of the French



houses or the method of building them, (and for my own part I



have always admired the plastered wall with stone buildings)

there can be no question I think that the country which has a traditional and recognized practice is fortunate for not only are building operations simplified, and the expense of them, I should think, both less and more easily calculated, but the effect of the national art is greater.

In respect of the question of style I do not feel much more determined than before this tour but one strong impression I have received, which is that a town is most interesting when its buildings are similar in character, whatever the style may be, and that arty building which differs unnecessarily from the accepted type is an unpleasing interrupt ion and must be very good indeed in order to be acceptable on its own account. When one comes to a place like the new part of New York, where there is as much variety of architecture in a square mile as there is in tire whole of France, all architectural character is gone. The technical merit is of the highest order, but the effect of the whole upon the imagination is no greater than that of a museum of art.

As we are in the same position as architects in the United States, that is to say without tradition or governing idea, t Iris is

perhaps riot a comforting impression to have received, but it is at least confirmatory of views which have been expressed here before and are, I believe, the architectural faith of many of us :—That attention to our own problems is both the surest safeguard against going wrong in our taste, arid the surest way of giving to our work the expression of character to which style is always snub— ordinate, and which is the essential characteristic of all good work in all styles.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

DESIGN FOR A SUMMER HOTEL. ;. A. MONETTE, Architect, MONTREAL.

SKETCHING COMPETITIONS IN THE School OF FINE ARTS, PARIS. Sketch BY J. A. MARCHAND

Residence ON	MADISON AVENUE, TORONTO. HENRY SIMPSON, ARCHITECT.

BUSINESS PREMISES AT	GANANOQUE, ONT. C. J. GIBSON, ARCHITECT.

RESIDENCE OF W. M. KNOWLES, WESTMOUNT, MONTREAL.

—R. FINDLAY, Architect.

This building recently erected occupies a magnificent site upon the mountain slope, In the arrangement of plan advantage has been taken of the extensive view of the city, dyer, rapids and lake, and every effort made to section comfort and convenience combined with all the advantages of this commanding position. The superstructure is built of pressed brick with sandstone trimmings and half-timbered work. A large staircase-hall forms the central feature of the house, from which the

principal rooms are reached ; and the interior has been handsomely finished throughout in hardwood. The lighting, heating and sanitary appliances and fittings are first-class in every respect.

ERRATUM. In connection with the illustration of the proposed East End C. P. R. Depot, at Montreal, published in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for March, the name of Mr. Geo. B. Post, of New York, was given as the architect of the building. This is incorrect. The architect is Mr. Bruce Price, of New York.

NOTE. The following description of the design for a town hall, by Messrs. Edward Swales and W. Watkin, should have accompanied the illustration published in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for March, but was inadvertently omitted ''The design for a town hall for a provincial town was recently submitted in public competition. The object aimed at was symmetry of plan and elevation, with simple treatment. The four departments provided are grouped round a central public hall with their inquiry offices, and are provided with private corridors, exits and conveniences, each department being distinct in itself. The main staircase immediately faces the entrance. The central feature, the large hall on the first floor to hold 500 (gallery included), is lighted from both sides, the buildings at the back being kept low, and is flanked by staircases treated as low towers. The council chamber is placed at the back, on the quiet side, away from the main street. Committee rooms, Magistrate's room, and retiring rooms have a!! private corridors and approaches. Caretaker and offices are provided on the second floor. Lifts to all floors. Storage for chairs from the hall. heating and lighting is provided in the basement.

