<doctype type="text">	56	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

2.	In registering such memorial, it is sufficient to mention, opposite the official number of the cadastre which describes the immovable, if the cadastre be deposited, or opposite the title of the registered deed, if the cadastre be not yet deposited, the name of the claimant and the amount due at the time the memorial is filed.

3.	The memorial shall be made out in duplicate, one copy of which shall remain in the archives of the registry office and the other be delivered to the creditor with the registrar's certificate thereon.

4.	The creditor shall, within three days from the registration of the memorial, give a written notice to the proprietor of the immovable, or to his agents, if he cannot be found."

4.	The act 57 Victoria, chapter 46, and all other provisions of the Civil Code inconsistent with this act, are repealed.



MONTREAL SKETCH CLUB.

<article title=" MONTREAL SKETCH CLUB " author="">

AFTER much exertion and not a few discouragements, new efforts were recently made to organize in this city a Sketch Club. A general meeting was called on Friday, March 20th, to discuss the advisability of organizing, at which a large number of students were present. The evening was devoted to considering the requisites of a club of this character, and the work of organization completed. The architects very kindly tendered the use of their rooms to the Club, which offer was gratefully accepted. The Club has been very active since its organization, and it is certain that in a short time it will prove its utility. One Saturday afternoon an enjoyable visit was paid to the Chateau de Ramezay, now converted into an historical museum. The Club is formed for mutual help in matters of design, lectures and discussions. Several other methods of effecting this object are to be employed. One night a week (Friday) is set apart as Club might. Monthly competitions are to be held, the work submitted at these competitions to be criticized by a jury of architects. The jury is formed of three officers, and forums the Executive Committee.

During the summer months the Club will make sketching tours in the surrounding country.

The Club has my best wishes for a long and prosperous career.



P. Q. A. A. STUDENTS EXAMINATIONS.

<article title=" P. Q. A. A. STUDENTS EXAMINATIONS " author="">

The semi—annual examinations of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects were held in the office of Mr. F. X. Berlinquet, St. John street, Quebec, on the 20th, 3oth, and 31st of January last. Four candidates presented themselves and have passed with success the final examination, viz., Messrs. J. E. Payette, J. Forget Despamie, and P. A. R. Labelle. The only candidate for matriculation examinations was Mr. P. Levesque, of Quebec. The examiners were Messrs. Charles Baillarge, F. X. Berlinquet, and F. X. Peachy.

ROYAL ACADEMY Exhibition

<article title=" ROYAL ACADEMY Exhibition " author="">

Those who had the advantage of visiting the exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy held in the Art Association building, Philips Square, must have remarked the progress achieved by the



painters Every year the outlook scents more promising and shows a marked advance in time works exhibited. There are to be seen some very line landscapes, pleasing and altogether successful water color sketches, particularly of Rocky Mountain scenery. The lady artists have done very good work. Some very fine pieces of decorative work can also be seen. The architectural section is represented by drawings by Mr. A. T. Taylor, R. C. A. The principal exhibitors are Robert Harris, A. R. C. A.; Mrs. Peterson Homer Watson, R. C. A.; William Brymer, R. C. A.; James L. Graham, A. R. C.A.,' J. Forthard, R. C. A.; Miss Sarah Holdemi, Miss Ford, and others.



The architectural firm of Edwards & Webster, Toronto, has been dissolved. Mr. H. J. Webster has opened an office in the west wing of the Confederation Life Building.



The death is announced of Mr. C. J. King, a prominent contractor of Victoria, 13. C., in his 55th year



Mr. Thomas Ask with, of the firm of Askwith & Neville, contractors, Ottawa, was seriously injured recently by an explosion of gas from the furnace.



BLACK ENAMEL FOR Wood. —The following recipe will prove of value to cabinet makers Prime  the wood with linseed oil, turpentine and white lead ; then give it two or three coats of black, mixed with copal varnish and turpentine ; rub it down dry with pumice stone arid water ; finally, varnish with copal. Again rub down, and polish with oil and rotten—stone to obtain perfect smoothness.

NOTES OF AN ARCHITECTURAL TOUR IN ENGLAND AND FRANCE.

By W. A. LANGTON.

<article title=" NOTES OF AN ARCHITECTURAL TOUR IN ENGLAND AND FRANCE " author="Langton, W. A.">

I Propose to speak only of the new work that I saw. I was brought first into contact wit h churches. I 'm not see many, but thought from what I saw that the English architect does not trouble himself too much with the problem of providing for the congregation a clear floor space and an unobstructed view of the chancel and pulpit. The objection to columns has been exaggerated and they have, on the other hand, great value as a means of marking proportion and obtaining effects of space ; but there is no retreat from the modern conditions which make that the perfect plan which gives the greatest proportional space to seats and gives each seat an unobstructed view of at least the pulpit. With this in view it is impossible to give more than a qualified admiration to many beautiful modern churches which derive the best part of their beauty from an arcade plan which is not made necessary by the extent of their area. But I was glad to find churches which show that the arcade has still a use The best example of this that I met was the late J. D. Sedding's Holy Trinity church, at Sloane Square, Londlon. Here there is a wide nave and narrow aisles. The congregation sit between the nave



piers, all in full view of the chancel, and the aisles are only used for passages. The entire width from aisle wall to aisle wall is 64 feet; the distance between the nave piers is only 38 feet. If there had been no arcade the cost of a roof to span 64 feet and of a wall to carry it would have been much greater than that of' either the roofs or walling which are sufficient for the present arrangement

—a nave 38 feet wide with 8 foot aisles—for after a certain span of roof is exceeded, the cost involved in its making, raising and support must increase in a rapid proportion for each additional foot.

This plan of Seddling's is satisfactory' in its effect not only because of time division into the nave and aisles, but because of the manner in which they are divided. The have is important the aisles only passages. The character of each part is well marked and the church gains in dignity and in picturesqueness too. It is incidentally interesting to reflect that this is true traditionalism, amid might have been attained at once if the gothic revivalists had studied the purpose of the ancient builders as well as their results; for the aisles are understood to have been intended by the early builders not for the congregation but for the passage of processions and if the revivalists had recognized the poetry of plan they would not have felt bound by time ancient proportion between nave and aisles but would have adapted them, as has been done in this church, to our manner of worship which makes the placing of the congregation all important, and the only procession in the aisles is their procession) td) their seats.

My principal object in going to London was to see the new work which, as represented in the English journals, appears to be so beautiful. Viewed in situ it was on the whole, disappointing The work is of the highest quality, refined, scholarly and exact, but the result on the street is small. Time general characteristic is a small scale with a great deal of ornament. The scale reminds one of a Dutch or Flemish town ; and there it would be seen to advantage, but it cannot hold its own against London. As for time ornament no detail which is intended to give pleasure in itself is in place in London. An angel with his mouth full of soot can give no pleasure or ever seem in place. The only kind of carved ornament which is none the worse for black is the meaningless renaissance forms such as swags. No one thinks of the flowers d)f which they are made up ; the line is everything and this is emphasized by time black and white marking of London. in fact the proper street effect in London seems to be exemplified in the buildings of Wren and his followers, which are generally built of grey stone amid broadly handled. The London smoke can do them no harm but rather enhances their effect. Indeed black amid white is the proper London effect. It is the effect of Wren's churches both inside and outside amid to the stranger in London is charming. Time Londoner, no doubt, looks upon it as common— place amid barren and wants to import effects of colour.

I cannot see why we should love the renaissance It is hostile to most of the objects for which we build. Yet it does seem to lend itself especially to the breadth which is so important for street building. The Banqueting Hall of Whitehall for all its elegance would hold its own amongst any neighbors amid commands our constant admiration although it is impossible to conspire its principal feature——the detached column with both cornice



Abstract of a Paper read before the Ontario Association of Architects.

