<doctype type="text">



men at the shops used to hide bad work and mistakes, or to cover flaws or other detects in wrought—iron work ?

3.	Is drifting rivet holes a good thing to do when they do not meet ? Is there any other course to pursue, or is this the best?

4.	W hat are the characteristics of the best work in riveting ?

5.	Does it make a difference in the quality of riveting whether he blows struck in driving the rivets are light or whether they are heavy?

6.	State the requirements for the best work in the use of bolts for fastening the parts of ironwork together.

7.	Is ironwork ever displaced or damaged after its erection and before the completion of a building, and in what ways ?

8.	suppose t lie floors of a building to be too heavily loaded with material during erection, how would you expect to discover that they were so loaded?

Have you ever seen cases where the fastening of floor beams to girders was insufficient if so, how did you know it was insufficient?

10.	1 low would you test a piece of steel in a girder, &c., to tell whether it was soft and tough, or hard ?

11.	What defects are cast—iron columns subject to, and how would you proceed 10 discover them ?

12.	What is t lie very best way of protecting iron which is below the water—line in a foundation from damage by rust ?

13.	Is there ever occasion to provide for the expansion or contraction of iron roof trusses? If so, state when it is necessary and how it is done.

14.	Is the connection shown below for joining a floor—beam to a girder of correct design State what you know about it.



















15.	1 low would you know from the plans what materials were to be used in the walls of a building ?

16 What is a traverse sect ion?

17.	To what drawings would you refer to determine the construction of floors



i8.	What do t lie various colors on plans denote ?





MONTREAL.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



VICTOR BOURGEAU

In connection with t he letter of a



correspondent, the Inland Architect prints the accompanying portrait of Victor Bourgeau, who was the architect of St. Peter's Cathedral, and the designer of the altars, pulpit and organ of Not re Dame Cathedral, in this city. Many of the Catholic churches, schools and convents in the province of Quebec were erected from his designs and under his supervision. He died about three years

ago, being upwards of eighty years of age.

<article title=" MONTREAL SKETCH CLUB " author="">

MONTREAL SKETCH CLUB

The Club has commenced to hold monthly competitions. The following problem has been given out for the month of May "An Entrance to a Public Building leading directly from an open court to a large hall.'' Drawings must be sent not later than the 29th inst. The students one Saturday afternoon recently visited the Canada Life Building, now in course of construction. The meetings of the Club are well attended.

EAST END C. P. R. DEPOT.

Workmen are at present engaged in clearing the site for the proposed C. P. R. east end depot. Considerable work is to he done on the building this season.

P. Q. A. A.



The series of lectures in connection with the monthly dinners of the P. Q. A. A. was brought to a close on the evening of the 4th of April by a lecture by Mr. W. E. Doran on Truth in Architecture.'' The Association held a general meeting on the 12th to consider preliminaries in connection with a proposed Architectural and Arts and Crafts Exhibition to be held in Montreal next fall in connection with the annual meeting. A general committee has been organized to complete arrangements, and will hold its first meeting on Tuesday, the 19th prox.

PLUMBERS' SUPPLY MERCHANTS ORGANIZE.

A	MEETING of manufacturers of and wholesale dealers in plumbers' supplies was held in Toronto on Tuesday, Mar 5th to consider questions affecting the trade. 'The meeting was the result of certain concessions asked for by the Master Plumbers' Association. The attendance was representative, and included the following

A. A. McMichael, Jas. Robertson Co.; James Morrison, James Morrison Brass Mfg. Co.; A. J. Somerville,

Ontario Lead and Barb Wire Co.; A. D. McArthur,

Craig & McArthur ; John M. Taylor, Toronto Radiator

Mfg. Co.; W. H. Carrick, Gurney Foundry Co.; H. S.

Hergert, M. & L. Samuel, Benjamin & Co. ; J. II.

Patterson, Toronto Hardware Mfg. Co.; H. W. Anthes,

Toronto Foundry Co. ; A. G. Booth, Toronto Steel-Clad

Bath & Metal Co. ; W. B. Malcolm, W. B. Malcolm &

Co.; Geo. Booth, Booth Copper Co., all of Toronto

E.	Smith, Robert Mitchell & Co., Montreal ; Geo. McAvity, T. McAvity & Sons, St. John, N. B.; T. A.

Stevens, Stevens Mfg. Co., London ; W. Armstrong,

Essex Brass & Iron Co., London.

The necessity of organization, in order to more effectually carry Out the objects desired, was apparent, and at the suggestion of Mr. Somerville, it was resolved to form an association, to be known as the Association of Manufacturers and Dealers in Plumbers', Steam and Hot Water Fitters' Supplies. Temporary officers were elected as follows A. A. McMichael, president ; A. J. Somerville, vice-president ; A. G. Booth, secretary.

A committee was appointed to draft a constitution and by-laws, and a report therefrom will probably be presented at a meeting to be held on the 21st inst. A resolution was passed pledging the members of the Association to supply goods only to legitimate master plumbers and steam fitters.

The Association gives promise of developing into a strong organization. It is intended to represent the whole Dominion, and already a majority of the largest manufacturers have signified their intention of becoming members.



The organization of a Master Plumbers Association, at London, Out., has been effected, after a determined effort on the part of the promoters The officers—elect are W. J. Hazlett, president

W.	Smith, first vice-president W. J. Skelley, second vice—president. The Association held its initial banquet on May 19th, at which Mr. W. J. Burroughes, president of Toronto Association, was present.

The Master Plumbers of Toronto must have had a very good time at their recent convention, judging front the reports which we have read, says the Chicago Master Steam Fitter. At the banquet following the business session about 150 guests were present. During the toasts and speech making considerable merriment was caused by numerous its amusing stories told on the

plumber. Amusing stories did not occupy all the time, as the members seem to have had an eye to business and the welfare of the association at all times, and many of the jokes contained a strong business pointer.



He who refuses to consider heating and ventilation together, as a part and parcel of the same art, is riot likely to achieve much in his efforts at improvement, says Domestic Engineering. Iii all future attempts at advancement in heating or in ventilating appliances they must be considered together. Good heating of buildings cannot be attained without ventilation, neither can good ventilation be obtained without heating. As well try to consider the steam engine alone, or the steam generator alone in the art of gaining power from steam as to separate the twins, heating and ventilation. No house, heated independently of the aid of airflow, is well heated. The ventilation of a building in winter with— out warming the inflow would not be good ventilation.

