<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



scaffold is regulated by moving the foot of the pole. To raise it higher the pole is moved closer to the wall to lower it the foot of the pole is moved further away from the building. The difference between the lowest and highest point the bracket can reach, is limited by the length of the pole.

<article title=" BUILDING TRADE DISSENSION " author="">

BUILDING TRADE DISSENSION.

BUILDING operations in Toronto have been affected during the past fortnight by a disagreement between employers and employees with respect to wages. Efforts were made by the Builders' Exchange, as well as the various building trades unions, to arrive at an agreement by which the season's operations would be carried on in harmony, and with the majority of trades this was effected. The agreement with the stonecutters has been renewed at the same rate of wages per hour as last year, while the stonemasons and bricklayers have signed an agreement at a considerable reduction. The Bricklayers' Union held out strongly against reduction but finally recognized the necessity of acceding to the proposition made by the master builders.

The Builders' Laborers' Union, however, notwithstanding the fact that agreements had been signed by the other branches at lower figures than last year, would not even accept the same rate as last year, which the builders were willing to pay, but apparently without considering existing conditions, demanded an increase of three cents per hour.

The refusal of the master builders to grant the request resulted in a strike being declared, which is still in progress. Several conferences between the parties to the disagreement have been held to endeavor to effect a settlement, but without success.

We are convinced that the strike has been brought on without proper consideration of the conditions in the building trades. It is admitted that building operations in Toronto during the present year are not likely to exceed those of last year, while many hold the view that their extent will be much less. The time, therefore, is not opportune for such a strike. The labor market is glutted, work scarce, and competition extremely keen.

Four years ago, the Trades and Labor Council, of which the Laborers' Union is a part, were successful in having a by-law passed by the City Council fixing the wages to be paid to laborers at cents per hour as the least upon which a family could be maintained. At that time the purchasing power of a dollar was about one half what it is to-day, consequently the workman who receives that amount to-day is in a much better position than he then was.

But probably the strongest proof of the unwise action of the laborers is found in the fact that the bricklayers and masons, who are skilled mechanics, and are compelled to spend several years in learning their trade, have considered it to their advantage to accept a lower rate of wages than last year. It is further claimed that few carpenters in Toronto receive a higher wage than is asked for by the laborers.

The master builders recognize the fact that it is not to their own interest to pay low wages, but in the face of the existing depression in the building trades the standard of wages is as high as can reasonably be demanded.



Mr. W. A. White, contractor, of Lindsay, Ont., was recently seriously injured by a safe falling Upon him.

_______	CORRESPONDENCE

[letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To Secure INSERTION all COMMUNICATION must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions, of correspondents.]

<article title=" A PROBLEM IN CONSTRUCTION " author="Birkett, john">A PROBLEM IN CONSTRUCTION.

KINGSTON, ONT., April 20, 1896.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR,— Will you please answer the following question and give the figures to show the difference in carrying power, or rather the resistance to bending- stress of the two beams of pine. Given a joist 26 x 3 X 14 resting

 

 







on a wall at each end as at A and another of same dimensions as at B but having pieces of 1" x 5" pine, nailed on as shown, does the addition of these pieces stiffen the joist, and how much ?

Yours truly,

JOHN H. BIRKETT.



Answer.—The safe load for a 3 x 14 white pine beam having a clear span of 24', is 2,940 lbs. The 1' x 5' pieces, if thoroughly nailed to thc beam or joist, would help to stiffen the same against sagging, but that would not materially strengthen the beam. It is impossible to secure the rider firm to the main beam when the span is so great and the depth SO little, that the whole will act together as one piece. The resultant strain is very great and the side pieces would slip upon the main beam in response to any weight thrown upon them. There is also the shrinkage in the timber to be taken into consideration.



THE 0. A. A.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, As the proposed amendment to t he Ontario Architects' Act has been withdrawn for the present, would it not be an opportune time for a discussion in your columns of the best means by which the Association might be strengthened ? The more really active numbers the Association contains and the more good work can be done by it in raising the standard of architecture in our province, the more easily will t he much desired legislation be obtained in the future.

The suggestion to form local chapters, which was made at one of the annual meetings, seems a good one. As it is now the members meet but once a year, while by more frequent gatherings of a less formal nature, much good fellowship might be promoted and much benefit be received by those attending. In this connection mention might be made of the meetings held by the English architectural societies, the reports of which in the English papers show the lively interest taken in them, not only by the members, but also by the professional journals, these reports forming no mean item in the contents of each number.

As Toronto is the headquarters of the Association and contains the largest proportion of its members, the initiative in the formation of such local chapters might well be taken here.

To carry out the proposal, convenient down town club rooms should be obtained. If these were comfortably furnished and provided with the leading technical journals, etc., they would soon become a pleasant meeting place for the architects. During the winter months lectures and occasional social gatherings could be arranged for the members, while for the students' section special classes and sketch competition could be provided. By this means the social as well as the educational advantages of the Association would be greatly increased, and by keeping the daily papers informed of all meetings, the Association would become better known, and would be practically a necessity to all architects.

if these club rooms were obtained it should be arranged that the Registrar have his office and the library of the Association in connection, and all non-resident members should be made welcome to the use of the rooms, when in town. Of course the expense attached to such an undertaking would be borne by the local members. the way things are at present many Toronto architects support not only the 0. A. A., but also the Guild and Sketch Club, which, of course, seems a needlessly heavy expense. If the two latter were in some way merged into the 0. A. A., surely it would add to the power of the latter, it is surely not impossible to make the 0. A. A. cover the entire ground of the three, and would most probably induce a better feeling and a stronger interest among those architects who are at present only half-hearted in their assistance to the 0. A. A. in reaching the goal it is striving to attain.

Trusting that these views may meet with approval, and that some action may be taken accordingly, I am, dear sir,

Yours very truly,

TORONTO MEMBER.

Toronto, May 1st, 1896.

