	<doctype type="text">68	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

<article title=" TRUTH IN ARCHITECTURE " author="Doran, E.">

TRUTH IN ARCHITECTURE. 4

By BUILDER E. DORAN Architect, Montreal.

Magna est Veritas et prevalebit.'

Architecture is capable of expressing truth in various forms Firstly, from an historical point of view, it reveals with a veracity not to be found in written records the state of civilization, The manners, customs and intellectual life of peoples. By their works shall know them." Without these records of imperish able stone, much of written history would, if it were not entirely incomprehensible, at least lose half its light and meaning. The character of a people is in no way more truly exemplified that in its architecture, and religion of all kinds has ever found in this art its highest form of appeal to human sympathy and worship. To illustrate the tint It of these propositions it is sufficient to glance at a few of the leading historic styles and the stories they convey. Leaving aside the architectural remains of earlier peoples, and commencing with the Egyptian, had we never read a line of their history, their architecture tells us of mysteries, a learned few, an ignorant mass, a history of work achieved by automations in the hands of a priesthood which ruled by mystery, and pretended to occult power

Turning to Greece we find written there freedom and enlightenment, the expansion of the human mind keeping progress with the appreciation of the beauty of nature, and its reproduction in art. Greece discovered that there was no straight line in Nature, and she proceeded to apply the principles of curves so well that she exhausted all the higher orders of them. Everything was intellectually, and so much so that even now we can discover new beauties in which to revel amidst her antiquities.

Route became the ruler of the world and art had to serve the mighty mistress, hut the character of the work betrays itself—her architects and artists were slaves. Mighty are her monuments building skill existed everything that could wait on luxury is to be found palaces, baths, aqueducts, triumphal arches; for—all tell their tale—a people ruled first by demagogues and then by tyrants, all the world subject at her feet, all that could tend to greatness except freedom.

In the earlier periods of Christianity we can read the history of the church in its architect tire, first in the catacombs and then emerging forth triumphant at Rome seizing boldly the Pagan temples, and transforming them into places of Christian worship

—consequently no marked change of style was developed 

In the east a more determined attempt was made to free Christianity from all influences of Paganism, and to erect a style for itself The result was the Byzantine ; however praiseworthy the motives, the best that can be said of it is that it came as nearly as possible to success, and served to prove the impossibility of any sudden creation of a style in architecture, and to illustrate one of the greatest truths of the art, viz., that all its best results must flow from patient study of certain needs and conditions and the gradual unfolding of the best and most appropriate structures to meet those conditions insensibly, therefore, a new style will develop, but it an never be launched forth a full—fledged creation of one man's brain or indeed as the concerted effort of any number of men.

It remained d for the incursions of the barbarians to overthrow the last vestiges of Imperial Rome in Italy ; when Christianity in turn succeeded in subduing these fierce tribes unto herself, there commenced a simpler and ruder architecture, that of Northern Italy, which to my mind contained elements of great merit, but which, however, were arrested before arriving at their full development. What with the incursions of Byzantine architecture from the East, and later of Gothic architecture from Germany the Lombardic style met with an untimely death. It seems to me much might be done by modern architects beginning where they left off, instead of following a debased Renaissance of later periods.

Passing over the Norman arid other transition periods we come to the real development of Christian architecture in what is miscalled Gothic. When the church was everywhere triumphant and faith ruled supreme, there dawned this glorious triumph of the mind, and of the soul of man, because although the term Gothic comprehends so many different styles peculiar to the various counties of Europe, there was to be found everywhere a certain development, though not contemporaneous, still resulting always in three marked periods, viz., early or simple, middle or

perfect and highly florid or debased. It is of the middle period  generally that I speak, and I think of that middle period in all lands it may safely be said that it exemplified all that was spiritual out nature, not merely copied, as was the beauty of the ancients, from the book of Nature, but founded on geometrical truth and associating therewith Christian symbolism and mysticism. The Gothic architects succeeded in raising to God temples, but, it is trite, by human hands, but other of these grand old cathedrals, with its misty heights, its and pinnacles its niches and saints, might be easily associated with the New Jerusalem coming down from heaven.

In juxtaposition the Moslem on the ruins of the Byzantine constructed an architecture embodying all his ideas of a sensual heaven.

Leaving aside for the moment the historical view, there is another form in which architecture is capable of expressing truth, and one which concerns us more particularly as practitioners of the art, it must he based on the of truth. In the first

place a building or structure of any kind must adequately serve the purpose for which ii is intended, and must to a certain extent be indicative of that purpose ; all its parts must be harmoniously blended together, and each part must have the relative importance to the whole which its rank or office demands ; thus, although



*	Paper read before the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

there are certain established proportions which are or should be on general principles each structure also has particular

proportions which depend on the skill of its designer and his perceptions of this law of tint Ii which should govern.

In the hands of a master the observance of this rule will probably develop a new type or style, more particularly when the conditions under which the structure is to he erected, the materials to be used, or die climatic influences it may encounter are altogether novel, but more frequently the case is that this consideration leads to expression in sonic existing style or less modified according to circumstances. It follows that the choice of style should never be arbitrary, and that some at least of the conditions under which it was originated must be existent in the structure which we wish to clothe with its feat tires.

Unless an architect reads aright the story told by a certain style, and be familiar with its origin he cannot intelligently use it. Having stated that perfection existed only in two historic styles, viz. Pagan or Natural in the Grecian, and Christian or Mystic in the Gothic, you might, at least, if you were not architects, expect me to denounce all others as vain amid unprofitable, and declare that the battle of the styles should rage round these two alone but the history of the Renaissance delivers me from this seeming dilemma 

As the cause of the Renaissance so called is a very much debated question, and would in itself require a lengthy research, I will only touch on facts which are generally admitted. That it had its origin in Italy was natural, as its people having the old monuments before them, though never studied and serving rather as quarries for their new building than any other purpose still insensibly their minds must have been affected by these remains so much so that their Gothic work is, to doubt mostly foreign and in every example of native Italian Gothic some traces classicism still remain. On account of its misnomer Renaissance or Revival," this modern Italian misled enthusiasts who having the beauties of classic literature, came to the conclusion that all perfection existed in the works of the ancients and that art of all kinds should return to its fountain head for inspiration. Butt that it should have been universal, displacing all national styles, and spurious as it was, conquered the world argued that this style contained in itself something that met the wants of men and which could not be so suitably met t by any oilier. I think the key is in the building of edifices of several stories. The previously considered historical styles had their development mainly in temples and monuments churches, shrines and cloisters Architecture had not occupied itself in habitations for, save in the



palaces of Rome, and these were on a par with its temples, or at arty rate never exceeded one-story; the castles of the nobility were military strongholds rather than residences. I would therefor ascribe the success of the Renaissance to the case with which it let itself to the dividing of buildings into stories, marking them with external other and balustrades. It has since beam demonstrated by the failure of the Greek revivalists that anything like



pure classical forms would be unsuitable for modern habitations	It is true also that England for a long time successfully resisted the investment, amid sought to create in the Elizabethan an adapt much of the Gothic to modern habitations producing certainly a picturesque effect according well with sylvan beauty butt there as elsewhere the Renaissance came to stay. Another cause of success (though this caught to have condemned it in the mind of any person with a truce feeling of the grandeur of architecture) was that every detail was so reduced to rule that any one with a fair knowledge of drawing and construction could leant mite complete art. in fact the tradition still remains with a great many otherwise well educated people that all of architecture is contained within the five orders according to Vigitola of Palladio. I regret to say that the tendency of the modern art school seems to confirm this, for although more latitude is given to the skill or want of it in the designer we rarely see anything ft out their graduates but variation of orders, pediments and porticos , it is a remarkable fact also that many of the most successful Renaissance architects wet. attracted to the profession in middle life, and were in reality amateurs

Certainly many architects of the present clay can lay claim to have improved on the work of then predecessors in this particular style, but the term Renaissance is too comprehensive amid is applied equally to the carefully studied work of the man who with trite classic taste tries to avoid time errors of Vitruvianism, to the mediocre compositions of the disciples of that school, and also to the meanest aggregations of walls having band courses dividing them into sections containing one or more lines of badly proportioned openings with or without decoration the whole finished with or without cornices. Really the term has no meaning.  But the question arises What story does the architecture of the present day tell ? and how is it that there is no particular style belonging to the nineteenth century , a century so prolific of improvements the century of steam and electricity, the century of triumphs in surgery and in all that pertains to progress, and in war amid destruction. Is architecture alone stationary or retrograde? Has engineering which was formerly only a branch of architecture alone the power to advance My answer is that the architecture of to—day reflects all these c conditions of life In this century of steam amid electricity. It is all high pressure——no time for calm study, no time for experimental advance ; everything must go imp by magic as it were. The architect must know everything, must be equally at home in all styles be able to use all methods of construction, attend to the most trifling matters of detail, please all tastes, be an artist a man of business financier, lawyer, electrician, tradesman, all in one. There is no such thing as human perfection yet the law says his work must lie perfect— not only his own work, butt he is obliged to see that the work of

(To be Concluded in June Number.)

