<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER	63

<article title=" EXAMINATIONS FOR BUILDING INSPECTORS " author="">

EXAMINATIONS FOR BUILDING INSPECTORS.

THE following questions were set at the late examinations for building inspectors, both for iron and steelwork and for the genera! inspection of buildings, by the Civil Service Board of New York _

TECHNICAL MARCH 10, 1896.



i.	State in full (giving their names) what drawings are in your opinion needed to give an inspector the information he should have to properly inspect a building.



2.	Is it part of the duty of an inspector to examine the specifications of a building he is in charge of, and for what purpose



in general ?



3.	What is the very first thing an inspector has to do in connection with the preparation for a building about to be erected, and how should he perform that duty ? (State this in detail.



4.	Suppose that shelving rock be found in making the excavation for a building, what must be done?



5.	What accidents are liable to happen in making the excavation for a building, and how are they to be guarded against?



6.	Suppose the ground under one portion of an excavation to be loaded to 10 tons per square foot, and that under an adjacent part of the same building to have 5 tons load, what will be the result?



7.	When you wish to build strictly sound stone masonry, state every detail of the process and every precaution you must use. (This does not refer to the cutting.)



8.	State what arc the characteristics of a strictly well-built brick wall, and all the details necessary to be observed by the mason in building it, including the inspection of the materials.



9.	Give every detail of the mixing and placing of first—class concrete, (1) cement, (2) sand, (3) gravel or broken stone, including the inspection of the materials.



10.	Is it a good plan to cement closely the ends or other portions of timber? Give a reason for your opinion.



MARCH 19, 1896.



11.	Will painting, cementing or tarring timber prevent decay ?



State all you know about it.



12.	What are the objections if ally, to the use of grout in masonry, where other methods can be used?



13.	Add the following measurements together, 10 feet inches,



13 feet 7 inches, 15 feet 2 inches, 12 feel 11 inches, 17 feet inch,



23 feet 8 inches.



14.	Subtract 27 feet 9 inches from 97 feet 5 inches.



15.	Multiply 19 feet inches by 6.

16 Divide feet inches by 5.



Six additional questions will be asked verbally respecting plans of buildings.



MARCH 17, 1896.



1.	Suppose the excavation for a building to be completed, how would you determine whether the earth or other natural material under the foundation was suitable to found upon without further preparation or work?

2.	Suppose rock to be exposed in making an excavation for a building, and that it slopes considerably so that its surface under a portion of the foundation runs below the level at which it is proposed to start the foundation, what should be done?

3.	What matters would you expect to find described in the specifications for a building which are not usually given on the drawings or plans?

4.	What is the reason for making the footing of a wall wider than the wall itself? Also, is there any reason for ever making this excess of width greater under one building than tinder another of the same dimensions?

5.	Suppose a brick building to be 50 feet by 100 feet and 45 feet high, and to have no cross walls; and that, while putting on the roof beam one of the bearing walls shows signs of weakness, what steps should be taken to prevent accidents?

6.	Describe fully the operation of cutting an opening through a bearing wall in a safe manner?

7.	Suppose the ends of wooden floor beams to be left square where they enter a bearing wall, what objections are there to this method, and what danger may result?

8.	What is the object of filling the space between the floor and ceiling in partitions ?



9.	Suppose an old brick wall is to be lined with a new one to make it heavier, how can you make the two work together?

10.	In putting timbers under the wall of a building for the purpose of underpinning it, how do you tell when the wedges on the

timbers are driven up sufficiently or sufficient strain taken on the lifting screws?



11.	What makes the most solid work, cement mortar or cement grout, and for what reasons?



12, In the following specification for stone masonry, state what important Omission there is.



Stone to be found, free from weathered faces, beds to be full and square to face with no large pitch holes, exposed faces to be pitched true, to be laid in cement mortar mixed cement to 2 clean sharp sand, all joints to be 3/8—inch and thoroughly filled' the stones to be bonded as shown in the drawings. The wall to be laid true and plumb, and all joints to be cleaned out for inch from the face and thoroughly pointed with rich cement mortar."



13.	Give, in your own language, every one of the requirements needing the attention of an inspector to insure that the brickwork in a building shall bc as good as it can be made?

14.	State what you know as to the best methods of protecting iron floor beams from damage by fire.



15.	State what you consider the best method of protecting iron columns against fire

16 What are the causes of dry rot in timber?

17.	How would you know from the plans what materials were to be used in the walls of a building?

18 What is a transverse section?

19.	To what drawings would you refer to determine the construction of floors?

20.	What do the various colors on plans denote?



IRONWORK MARCH 10, 1896.



1.	What would be the finish of the ends of all columns or parts of columns to insure sound and plumb work ?

2.	How would you proceed to make a careful inspection of wrought-iron columns, girders, &c., before erection ?



3.	Suppose that in the erection of wrought—iron work some of the holes for rivets can not come fair with each other, what is the correct procedure?

4.	How should the head of a rivet look after it is driven, and what test should be applied to rivets?

5.	Can a rivet be driven tight if the plates to be joined are not in absolute contact ? If not, why not ?

6.	Are bolts as good as rivets for fastening the parts of iron work together? Give your reasons for so thinking.



7.	Is ironwork ever damaged in transportation ? State what you know about it.

8.	Does the wind ever displace or damage ironwork after its erection and before completion, and what provision, if any, should be made against such damage?

9, Are the floors of a building ever damaged during erection by overloading, and in what way does the damage show itself?

10 In which way is a rivet the stronger when sheered by a side strain or pulled endwise?



11.	Could you tell with a cold chisel whether a piece of steel in a girder was soft and tough or hard and brittle, and how?

1 2. How would you inspect a cast-iron column if called upon to do so?

13.	Criticize the following details of the tops of cast—iron columns and give your reasons for your conclusions. State also what should be done to make the one marked "A" correct.

















14. how would you change the following base, &c., of a cast-iron column to make it safe ?





—	 









15. In addition to the above, six questions will be asked verbally in connection with a set of plans.

MARCH 17, 1896.



1.	Is there any objection to the use of shims in plumbing columns or parts of columns ? If there is, state it.



2.	State some of the dishonest expedients proposed by work

