<doctype type="text">	66	THE CANADIAN R	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" CANADIAN SLATE—ITS FORMATION, EXTRACTION AND USES " author="">

CANADIAN SLATE—ITS FORMATION, EXTRACTION AND USES.

TUE growing importance of the slate industry of Canada demands a consideration of the utility and value of the mineral, its

occurrence and distribution, especially in the province of Quebec. and the method of extraction and usage. The subject is so comprehensive that adequate justice cannot be given to it in a short



paper of this kind. I find nothing written upon the subject except the meager references made in Geological reports of Sir Win.

Logan and others. Therefore, as no thorough examination has been made of the slate formations of this province, our knowledge of the same must be limited. No clay slate of any value is found in the Laurentian range nor anywhere in the Province of Ontario. In coming east through the Province of Quebec, we find the first slate formation near Stanbridge, and this appears to be a continuation of a similar slate found in an island in Lake Champlain, and also in Hatch Hill south of Whitehall, in New York State. No work has been done on this vein except on the island above mentioned. Then farther east we strike purple and green slate in Missisouoi county, and at Granby where some small openings have been made. This formation continues to the north-east to Actonyale, where a quarry was opened and operated by Mr. Rankin, of Montreal. Then we come to the Kingsby formation, which is a very wide purple and green belt. A quarry was opened on this vein at Trenholmville, but the slate that was produced was of poor quality. This formation is different from all

the others, it being a laminated formation, the bedding about one quarter inch and more apart, and not capable of being split between the beddings. A slate of similar character is found in Birds-Eye Mountain, near Castleton, Vt., which possibly is a continuation of the same formation. East of this are the Melbourne veins, upon which several openings have been made, to wit, Melbourne quarry, the New Rockland quarry, which is now being worked the Steele quarry in Cleveland, and the Danville quarry

in Shipton. Slate of excellent quality is being produced from this vein. The next formation east of this is found near Windsor Mills. It is an extensive deposit, but owing to its ribbony character, the ribbons in it being hard and occurring at intervals of only a few inches, renders it unworkable and of no value. Next we come to the Brompton formation, upon which two openings were made near Key Brook, about thirty-four or thirty-five years ago, but this also is full of ribbons, which unfit it for the production of roofing slate. Slabs for sidewalks and cellar bottoms have been taken out of it at several places which at a greater depth would be good for that purpose. This formation is very extensive, being about a mile in width at Brompton. It is identical with the beds at Montpelier, North Johnsbury, and also Guilford south of Brattleboro, Vt. Quarries have been opened in each of these places and were wrought for many years, the Brattleboro or Guilford quarries being undoubtedly the oldest on this continent. They were worked as far back as 1812 This vein runs south of Guilford for about ten miles when it is pinched out by the granite. Then we come to the information of East Angus and Garthby and several veins of different colors in Beance county. From the number and variety of the slate deposits of Quebec, it would al)pear that many remunerative quarries might be opened.

The main ingredients in the composition of slate are silica and

alumna, which show it to have been at one time ordinary clay. Blue (of different shades), purple red and green are the ordinary colors met with. The blue color is derived from the presence of

protoxide of iron, or iron and oxygen mixed in the proportion of one part of the former to two of the latter. The red and purple varieties take their color from iron in the form of peroxide, two



parts of iron combined with two of oxygen. Into slate of a green color, which is the best common variety, iron less largely enters, and in combination with magnesia, gives them a greenish hue. The clay beds were deposited in ages long past, in the bottom of the sea, and in process of time they have been hardened into stone, and lifted up so as to form dry land. That these beds were originally deposited in time sea, geological authorities mention among other reasons the fact that they contain abundantly the remains of former sea life, which lie along the planes of the bedding, such as zoophytes, mollusca and crustacea. The fossils of these strata may be studied from Sedgwick and MeCoy's Palezoic Rock and Fossils,' and other works. The presence of soda and potash in the slate deposits, being the record of the saltiness of those ancient seas, is an additional proof of the beds of clay in the sea. It can be well imagined how when this deposition was made that it went through a process of sorting. The heavy coarser material would be deposited first near to the shore the finer matter would be carried farther to the sea, and the lightest portions of all would be held longest in solution and would reach the farthest from the shore line. We can well understand then that the variations we find in the quality, color, consistency and thickness of the strata, etc., are all due to the disturbance of the water, caused by oceanic and tidal currents, as well as by storms, which then as now occurred periodically. As a result of these storms we might naturally expect to find, even in the finest deposits, layers of coarser material.

From these simple statements relative to its formation it will readily be seen that in a slate bed which extends over miles of country, a great variation in consistency and color will be found. The deposition of the coarser or finer portions will determine the



Abstract of paper by H. J. Williams before the General Mining Association of the Province of Quebec

former, while the latter is dependent on the presence in the water of the different oxides of iron in combination with carbon, when vegetable growth has occurred, magnesia and other elements, it will be seen also that it is fallacious to suppose, that because a vein has been proved good or bad in a certain portion, that it must necessarily continue the same throughout its entire course. Each particular portion must speak for itself only. In all slate veins, lines or bands, sometimes wavy, but oftener straight, will be seen crossing in, These are lines of bedding, amid it does not follow that the lines of cleavage will coincide with them, as it can only be supposed that the phenomenon of cleavage resulted from an action which occurred long subsequent to the deposition of t he muddy layers in beds. There is some difference of opinion among those who have given attention to the subject as to the manner in which this slate cleavage was produced. It is explained by some to be the result of a crystallizing action by others to be due to magnetic currents, while others, again, claim it to be the effect of mechanical forces that compressed time sediment at right angles to the direction of cleavage always at right angles to time dip of the vein.

The occurrence of joints, such as floor or foot joints, face or side joints is accounted for by the mass slowly hardening and consolidating by pressure as well as beat. Lifted out of the water it cracked and split in various directions in drying, amid, influenced by the law of crystallization, it assumed definite shapes, being split into rough and rhomboidal masses. Had our original de

position been homogeneous and subsequent action constant amid uniform our present slate veins would all have been practically

perfect; as such, however, was not the case we have to contend against many conditions which determine its possibility of being worked to advantage. The presence of dykes, posts, wavy cleavage, impure beds, etc., we find in all slate formations, and it is only after a careful and intelligent study of the conditions that we are enabled to know of its value.

The industry in the Province at Quebec is at present combined to the workings of but two quarries. One operated by the New Rockland Slate Co., at New Rockland, amid the other by the Danville Slate Co., near Danville. Both these quarries are located on what is known as the Melbourne vein, previously mentioned. The former is the most extensively worked of any that has been opened in Canada. Here the rock stands nearly straight, having a dip of 80 to the southeast. The slate is of excellent quality, being hard, tough and strong, amid blue—black in color, which is unfading. It is of compact amid close grain, admitting of no soakage of water, making it very durable.

The first workings were opened about 1865, on what is known as the west bed, lying in the serpentine rock. Operations were entirely confined to this bed until the year 1881 when a cutting was made through a hard bed, and a body of slate found which was equal in quality to that of the other vein. Operations have continued in this new vein up to the present time. This vein is very regular in formation, not being intersected by any foreign rocks, but pants of it are very so abject to chicks, or an unsoundness known as slants by quarrymen which chicks, running at an angle with he cleavage renders it unworkable for roofing slate or slab work.

A very extensive quarrying and milling plant is in use. The Salami river here affords a very excellent water power which is conveyed to the housing engines by means of wire rope transmission Cable derricks of the Blondin system are extensively used. A large mill, moo x 6o feet, thoroughly equipped with all modern milling machinery produces slab work of all descriptions A narrow gauge railroad, about five miles in length, conneers the quarry with time Grand Trunk railway, at a point about five miles east of Richmond.

At the Danville quarry the vein is intersected by a series of hard ribbons which, however, are at a sufficient distance apart to enable slate to be made from between them. The equipment here, though on a much smaller scale, is similar to that at New Rockland, except, that the power used is steam. In addition to their roofing slate amid slab work, school slates are manufactured.

Owing to the private character of the companies operating 1 am not able to give satisfactory statistics of the industry. The trade, however, has grown to be a very important one. This has been due principally to the efforts made by these companies to introduce slate, by the opening up of the country with railroads and by the protection which the government has seen fit to bestow upon it. So rapidly has the trade grown of late that the demand is far in excess of time production, and with the extensive deposits of slate that we have in this country, there is every inducement for a thorough examination of the various veins, which I do not doubt would lead to time opening up and working of several remunerative quarries. And I look forward to the time, in time near future, when slate quarrying shall have become one of the principal industries of the province.



<article title=" GRANITE CUTTING APPARATUS " author="">

GRANITE CUTTING APPARATUS.

IT is necessary in order to lessen the cost of production amid withstand the inroads of competitors, that manufacturers of materials should employ such machinery as will produce the maxi— mum of results at the minimum of cost. That Messrs. McIntosh & Sons, of Toronto, fully realize this is shown by the introduction, in connection with their granite and marble works, of what are said to be the first pneumatic hammers in use in Canada for dressing purposes. The apparatus, although simple, is quite expensive, which, together with the fact that it is not generally known, no doubt largely accounts for the fact that its adoption has not become more general.

A Northey pump forces the water up from the well to a compressed air pump, the power being supplied by a 15 h.p. engine. From this pump the air is forced through a common iron pipe to

