<doctype type="text">	62	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER

<article title=" DEFECTS OF ASPHALT PAVEMENTS." author="">

DEFECTS OF ASPHALT PAVEMENTS.

THE doubts expressed in these columns last year concerning the merits of asphalt as a paving material on streets traversed by street car tracks, have proven to be well founded. The disappearance of ice and snow from the principal business thoroughfares of Toronto, viz., Yonge, King and Queen streets has revealed the fact that between and on either side of the street car tracks, the asphalt has broken away in large patches from the concrete foundation, leaving the roadway full of great holes, unsightly to look upon and highly dangerous to traffic.

These pavements were laid four years ago at a cost of $2.80 per square yard, and in the belief that in them the city was securing a truly permanent pavement, the foundation of which would endure for about thirty years and the asphalt surface for about half that period. It is greatly disappointing to find that these expectations are not to be realized in any satisfactory degree, and that the recent large expenditures on pavements must be supplemented almost immediately.

It is true that the contractors are hound to keep the pavements in repair for five years, hut a year hence that period will have expired, and then the cost of maintenance will fall upon the city. Soon after the city is called upon to assume the responsibility for keeping these pavements in repair it will probably be found necessary to renew entirely the asphalt surface. The cost of doing so will amount to about $1.50 per square yard, or above half the total original cost. Unless a better class of material and workmanship can be secured, the asphalt surface will require to be renewed three or four times at least during the lifetime of the concrete foundation, so that in the end the pavements will cost double the amount of the original estimate.

We believe that had vitrified brick been used on these streets instead of asphalt, the result would have been much more satisfactory in every way.



<article title=" OFFERING BRIBES TO ARCHITECTS " author="">

OFFERING BRIBES TO ARCHITECTS.

WE have more than once called attention to the reprehensible practice of some manufacturing companies who, instead of relying upon legitimate business methods and the merits of their goods, aim to secure contracts by offering commissions and other forms of bribes to architects. A well-known firm of architects in Western Ontario lately received a barefaced offer of this kind, which they have sent to us with the request that we would assist to put a stop to the practice. Believing that exposure is one of the most effective means to this end, we print the communication in full, as follows

DETROIT HEATING & LIGHTING CO.

DETROIT Mich., April 7111, '96.

Messrs. 

Ont.

Dear Sir

As we conduct our business for profit, we assume that you conduct yours from a like motive. We propose to increase our profits by adding to yours, and, therefore, submit the following proposition for your consideration

More than ten years ago, we began to manufacture hot water and steam heating apparatus. Such work was not then understood by the local fitter, and, in order to bring such systems into general favor, it became necessary for us to employ a force of about one hundred expert hot water fitters for installing the systems all over the United States; a force of about fifteen engineers and draftsmen, for preparing plans, and about thirty traveling salesmen, to drum the country. The situation has now completely changed, in that 1st, we no longer contract for the installation of such systems, and, consequently, do not carry a force of traveling fitters. 2nd, the local fitter is now

familiar with the work, therefore, it is no longer necessary to employ a force of engineers and draftsmen. It is admitted that the present price on first-class heaters is too high, but manufacturers still maintain present high prices because they continue to employ, at a heavy expense, a large corps of fitters, engineers, draftsmen and drummers.

Our heaters are well and favorably known all over the United States, and, as we now sell them only to local fitters, we propose, (allowing other manufacturers to conduct their business as may seem best for them), to dispense with our large force of engineers, drummers, etc., and divide the saving thus effected with the local fitter and architect 1st by offering our heater to the fitter at a lower price than any other first class heater in the country' ; 2nd, by' paying to the architect a commission of to per cent. on net sale price of the heater specified by him, if sale is finally' effected. Therefore, after this date our representative will not visit you, as has been his custom in the past.

We trust you may be pleased to operate with us in the plan outlined above, and if so, to avoid errors or misunderstandings, when you specify our apparatus, will you kindly' fill Out the memorandum in the enclosed hook, and forward to us, without delay', so that we may place Oil file, and when transaction is fully completed, we will remit, or protect your draft Oil us for the amount of commission. This proposition also includes our Corn bination gas machine, at a commission of 5 per cent., net amount sale, up to, and including seventy'—five (75) lights, and 4 per cent. on one hundred lights and larger.

We know that our plan of dividing profits will prove mutually profitable, and hoping that we may have your early' reply', indicating that you will co—operate with us, we remain,



Yours very truly,

DETROIT HEATING & LIGHTING Co.



P.	S.—Price lists and discounts on application.



The form of memorandum above referred to is as follows

Owner of Building Date                

	Specified	Architect

Capacity Gas Machine	State and 

Heater Specified,	Address of Owner....,.

Date Advised D. H. & L. Co	Heating Contractor's Address....

Heating Contract)	Lighting Contractor's Address .        

awarded to)

lighting Contract	Capacity or No. Heater

	awarded to	Capacity or No. Gas Machine

	Mail this to

	Detroit Heating and Lighting Co ,	Detroit Heating and Lighting Co.,

Detroit, Mich. .	Detroit, Mich.





It may be that some architects do not scruple to receive and accept offers of this kind, and that the idea has consequently got abroad that all architects are open to do business on this plan. If so, the impression is a false one. We believe the leading architects of the country are guided in their practice by higher principles, and that an offer like the one printed above would be considered a sufficient offence to warrant the exclusion of the person making it from tendering upon future contracts. It is still true that honesty is the best policy.



MOVABLE FOUNDATIONS.

PROF. JOHN MILNE, of the Imperial College of Engineering at Tokyo, Japan, has devised a novel form of foundation for buildings erected in countries subject to earthquakes, involving tile use of huge ball bearings. About half a century ago a Japanese builder became convinced that the secret of protection rested in the founded ions of buildings, and erected an immense bamboo structure Oil wooden beams resting on long iron rollers. upon the occasion of tile fist earthquake the structure rose and fell with the undulations of the earth, but as soon as the trembling changed the building collapsed, for the reason that the rollers could only move one way. He next erected a building equipped with two sets of rollers, one above and at right angles to the other. This was more successful. At a later date, Prof. Milne, in taking apart a bicycle, noticed the ball bearings at the axles, and erected a building on this principle, making the walls with a groove at the base and resting them on rows of iron shot and balls. These in turn rested in grooves running in all directions, so that the house could move to and fro. This experiment proved entirely successful, and while the building swayed in a startling manner it did not collapse.

