<doctype type="text">

<article title=" REVISED ENGLISH WORKING RULES " author="">

REVISED ENGLISH WORKING RULES.

THE following revised working rules for bricklayers, approved by the Association of Master Builders and the Operative Bricklayers' Society of London, Eng., will doubtless be of interest to Canadian master builders

There are to be fifty working hours during forty weeks, forty-seven hours during six weeks and forty four hours during six weeks. Overtime when worked at the request of employers, but not otherwise, shall be paid at the following rates, namely, from leaving-off time until 8 p. in., time and a quarter ; from 8 p. M. to 10 p.m., time and a half ; after 1 o p. in., double time. No overtime shall be reckoned until each full day has been made, except where time is lost b stress of weather. On Saturday the pay for overtime, from noon to 4 p. in., shall be time and a half, and after 4 p. m. and Sunday, double time. Christmas Day shall be paid for the same as Sunday. Workmen engaged on a night gang shall be paid one penny per hour in addition to the ordinary rate of wages. One hour's notice to be given or one hour's time be paid by either side, on determining an engagement. All wages due to be paid at the expiration of' such notice, or walking time if sent to yard. In the event of more than 10 per cent. of the workmen of the trade employed at the job giving notice to leave during any one day (except Saturday), they are not to be entitled to receive their money until noon on the following day. Men who are sent from the shop or job, including those engaged in London and sent to the country, are to be allowed as expenses 6d. per day for any distance over six miles from the shop or job, exclusive of travelling expenses, time occupied in travelling and lodging money. Payment of wages is to commence at noon or as soon thereafter as practicable on Saturday, and be paid on the job. But if otherwise arranged, walking time at the rate of three miles per hour to be allowed to get to the pay-table at twelve noon. Employers are to provide where practicable and reasonable a suitable place for the workmen to have their meals on the works, with a laborer to assist in preparing them Wages earned after leaving-off time on Friday and Saturday only shall be kept in hand as back time. If application be made to any employer by the central committee of the Operative Bricklayers Society to discharge any workman on the ground that such workman is obnoxious, and the employer refuses to accede, no strike shall be sanctioned, but the question shall be referred to the decision of the Board of Conciliation. But no such application shall be made in consequence of such workman belong or not belonging to any trade society. Six months' notice on either side shall terminate the foregoing rules.

Small Leaks.

Much of the loss suffered on contracts is due frequently to the carelessness of the foreman of works or to the men

employed in not taking proper care of the materials left in their charge previous to their being put in place. In the loading and unloading of bricks many dollars may be lost or saved by handling. A careful handler will gather up the bricks with due attention and place them in piles without making unsaleable "bats" of an undue percentage of them, whereas a careless man will destroy in a day, while handling and piling bricks, more than would pay his clay's wages, and this loss, on a building containing two or three hundred thousands of bricks, would make serious inroads in the profit percentage. When bricks are to be stacked up before

Care of Lumber.

being laid in the wall, a good solid and level foundation should be prepared, and laid over with rough plank or boards, and the bricks should then be placed on the boards in regular courses "headers and stretchers, ' breaking joints as though placed in the wall. By this means the pile or stack will be made solid and insured against falling. It is a good plan to scatter a thin layer of straw on every fourth or fifth course ; it has a tendency to keep the courses even and prevent them crushing the lower courses, and the straw also acts as a bond and ties the stack together.



PERHAPS the biggest "leak" in a contract will be found in the lumber bill. From experience we know that a much

larger percentage of loss usually occurs in the construction of a building than is generally provided for, and this loss is not due to actual and necessary waste, but rather to bad calculation and careless handling. Finished stuff, such as flooring, wainscoting, base mouldings and door and window trimmings, are carted to the building, thrown down carelessly into a hall room, or perhaps left outside, and for hours, and sometimes days or weeks, is tramped over by the workmen before being used, or as is often the case, left outside of the building, or some place where it is exposed to the weather and rendered unfit to work. The trampling over splits, breaks, fills with sand or disfigures a lot of good material, either rendering it unfit for use or making it necessary to expend a lot of work upon it to make it serve its purpose, all of which could be avoided if proper care was taken in '' housings' the material the moment it arrives at the works. Trimmings, doors, mouldings, wainscoting's and ornamental wood-work of any sort, ought never to go into a building until all the walls have been plastered complete, and thoroughly dry. The practice of trimming doors and windows immediately after the ''putty coat" is applied to the walls cannot be too much deprecated. The custom is an evil one and often causes a great deal of trouble in both doors and windows, as the ''trim " by expansion is apt to crowd the jambs, causing the sashes to bind and stick, and forcing the door jambs out of shape, causing trouble with the locks and often leaving a defect that can never be remedied. Where time is an important factor, it may be permissible to '' put" clown base, or even to plant '' matched" wainscot, but neither time nor conditions should force the contractor to put on his trimming while the plaster is yet damp, if he values his reputation as a good and careful workman.



IN the matter of floors contractors may add to their profits or increase their losses more rapidly than in any other

class of work about a building. A careful workman will see that his joists are properly sized before being placed on the wall, and that the "crowning edge " is above, and he will endeavor when '' bridging '~ to give all his joists a crowning edge and have them all on one plane SO that his flooring will touch each joist without being forced down or sprung. This is an important matter, inasmuch as if the joists are at irregular heights, it will cause a great deal of trouble in laying the floor and result in a big loss of time which is loss of money. In driving flooring together some care should be taken, and the tongues of the boards should not unnecessarily be broken off or '' mashed " in driving

Concerning Floors,

<article title=" Concerning Floors " author="">