	<doctype type="text">76	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



great luxury. Between the windows are three buttresses, which were found necessary to counteract the weight of the roof, which has thrown the walls out of perpendicular. These additions are considerably later, and marked new on plan.

On entering the hall you are at once struck by its proportions. The massive beams which support the roof are arched, springing from stone corbels on each side. The windows have stone seats, except the two northern ones, which are only half length, the one over the entrance being now built up, and the one at the end on the west side, which will be seen in the sketch published in January, has somehow lost its upper part, and horizontal beams of wood are inserted and now fitted with doors. There was the remains of some iron work, which by some authorities is supposed to have belonged to part of a drawbridge, but it is very unlikely that a drawbridge would communicate direct into the great hall. Some year ago it was used as a barn, and this doorway was made, in my opinion, at that time. There is no appearance at the upper end of any dais, for the small door at the end is on a level with the rest of the floor. Probably a temporary one was used. The hail has never been paved or tiled in any way, except nearly midway between the sides there is an octagonal pavement for the brazier—the only provision for a fire. There is no chimney The beams of the roof above are blackened with the smoke of centuries. Everything in the place recalls the mediaeval baronial hall, and there still remain parts of heraldic devices that can he faintly traced in the now crumbling plaster.

The northern tower has been fully described in a previous number of this journal. The very narrow loopholes and rubble masonry show that it is the earliest portion remaining. In the lower chamber a well is sunk. Here again rude ornament can be traced on the walls.

Returning to the hail, a flight of solid oak steps lead to the chambers called the priests' rooms, and here is a collection of tiles, the ''Centaur" and an "Archer with a Long Bow" being the more unusual patterns. An ogee window has been inserted in this room, and it may have been used as a chapel, although the church, which is quite as old as this tower, is close to the moat. At the southern end of the hail, through a square-headed trefoil doorway, characteristic of Edwardian architecture, into two small apartments, wainscoted and used as store-rooms, and an tuner room terminating at the tower, steps lead into the only cellar. Well lighted by windows into the moat, above these rooms, and approached by the external stone steps already mentioned, is the handsome Solar. The tracery of the windows are similar to those of the hail, and are like them furnished with stone seats. In addition they are flanked with small lancets. On the court side the lancet window has been blocked up, and an ogee added, presumably to gain a better view of the gate-house. The two small squints with shutters at each side the fireplace, I have mentioned before. The remains of the elaborate panelling, and the magnificent chimney piece of oak of Charles 11. time, still showing the color and guiding, with grotesque figures and scroll work, has even now an extremely rich effect. It rests on a massive grey stone arch. I hope to give a measured drawing of it at a future date. The inner chamber corresponding to the one below is provided with a wardrobe, and was the principal sleeping apartment.

Descending to the court an archway between the but

tresses opens into the lower apartment of the south tower. In this is a large fireplace, and has no doubt been used as the kitchen. The principal entrance, however, is from the level of the Solar across the gangway, and in time of siege the lower doorway would be blocked up and the only approach destroyed.

The plan appears somewhat irregular, and the angles within and without do not correspond on examination, a good illustration of' the carelessness of the old builders. It appears, as it were, two octagonal towers placed side by side, forming a rude heart shape. The walls are very thick in places (six feet). Each floor is provided with a fireplace, and for better defence the lancet windows on each floor command the different angles of the tower each with a stone seat. A stair in the thickness of the wall leads from floor to floor, and in one room the decoration, consisting of a gray paint with flecks of brown, like whisps of hair, is still discernible.

The battlements on the roof consist of large embrasures, which originally had shutters, alternating with loop-holes for the use of cross-bows. A short flight of steps on the north side lend to a small watch tower over the stairs. The present owner has repaired the floors and put a good lead flat in place of the old roof which was burnt, and in many places repaired the walls, etc., keeping the whole in good order, but allowing nothing to be destroyed, and nothing is restored to death.

From the foregoing somewhat meagre description, it will he seen that Stokesay consists of three distinct parts. Of these the only portion of which any clear date of its erection can be fixed is the south tower. Any attempt to fix the order in which the others were built must rest on inferences drawn from the plan or the history of its owners. The castle now belongs to Mr. Allcroft, who keeps it in an excellent state of repair. The whole country from Liverpool to Hereford, through Shrewsbury and Ludlow, teams with interesting spots for the artist and archaeologist, and with historical as— sociations—a splendid field for the architectural student visiting England. And the district is comparatively little known.

EDWARD Swales



<article title=" ARTS AND GRAFTS ASSOCIATION " author="">

ARTS AND GRAFTS ASSOCIATION.

THE Arts and Crafts Association of Hamilton opened its doors for the third annual exhibition on June 4th. Among the articles of interest was a carved mahogany piano stool by J. R. Seavey, which was a neat piece of workmanship. A. Lutes, an amateur, contributed a pedestal, surrounded at top and foot with oak leaves.

P. L. Scriven's wood engravings were also creditable. Bell-Smith's Westminster and Port Neuf's pictures were models in architectural drawing-.

Mr. and Mrs. Norris gave an exhibition of pottery-making, which was repeatedly applauded. R. Carroll, wood—carver, exhibited and worked on a panel a modern Italian renaissance, with cupids as central figures. It is a masterpiece of wood-carving, bringing out the cupids to good advantage.

Metal spinning and metal work were among the interesting features of the exhibition. The exhibition lasted ten days, and was creditable to the city of Hamilton.



The Kingston News says there is an opening for a cement works at Kingston, with plenty of material close at hand from which to make cement and pressed brick.

