<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" GRANITE FOR THE UNITED STATES " author="">

GRANITE FOR THE UNITED STATES.

granite quaries of Messrs Tayte, Meating & Co. The r

at St. George, N. 13., from which the red granite is being- obtained for the American Museum of Natural History on Manhattan Square, New York, presents an active scene. There have already been shipped 3,500 feet, while other vessels will shortly go forward with further consignments.

Between 55 and 6o men are employed in the quarry getting out the stone and conveying it to the station for shipment. The firm are said to be doing the work which they have in hand in an eminently satisfactory manner. Extra machinery will be put in at once and the output considerably increased, The architect at New York and the port commissioners have approved of the granite, and it is probable further orders will be placed with the company for the American market.

<article title=" SLATES AND SLATING " author="">

SLATES AND SLATING.

THE best and most substantial roof known to the architects at present is the slate roof, having at least a square pitch. Such a roof weighs considerably more than a shingle roof, and it also costs a little more, but it is many times more durable.

Some technical terms are used in connection with slating. In England names are used to indicate the size of slate. One 10 x 13 inches being known as a double. Smaller slates are called small doubles. The next larger size is known as plantations ; the next size is called viscountess. Sizes ranging from 8 x 1 2 inches to 10 x 16 inches are called ladies ; from 10 x 20 inches are called countesses ; up to 14 X 24 inches, which are known as princesses. There are slates that run through all the title of nobility, marchioness, duchess, imperial, and then comes what is probably a poor man slate, under the delicate title of rags. The noble titles are again resumed, and run queens, empresses, and end with princesses.

In American practice the slates run simply by inches, from 7 X 14 up to 17 X 24 inches. The thickness of slates ranges from 0. 25 to 0.32 1 5 of an inch, and their weight varies from two to four and a half pounds per square foot. A square of slating is rated as any other roofing equal to 100 square feet, the gauge is the distance between the courses, while lap is counted as the distance which each slate overlaps the slate lengthwise next below but one. Lap varies from two inches to four inches, and a standard lap about three inches. As above stated, a good slate roof should have about square pitch, but slates should never be put upon a roof which pitches less than one foot in tour feet. When it is desired to compute the surface of a slate when laid and the number of squares of slating, subtract the lap from the length of a slate, which is taken as distance from nail hole to tail, and one half the remainder will give length of surface exposed ; this when multiplied by width of slate, will give the surface required.

To ascertain the number of slates required for a square, divide 14,400, which is the area of one square in inches, by the surface obtained above, and the quotient will give the number of slates required for one square.. For an example, take a slate 12 X 24 inches ; taking a standard lap three inches, the number required for a

square will be found by subtracting three from twenty four, equal to twenty—one, and twenty—one divided by two equals ten and a half inches, which, multiplied by twelve, equals 126 inches, 14,400, the total area to be covered, divided by 126, which equals the area of one slate, gives 114.29 slates required for the square.

Slate weighs from 165 pounds to 180 pounds per cubic foot, and in consequence of lap, it requires an average of two and a half square feet of slate to make one inch of slating. When slate o. 1 25 inch thick is laid on laths, it weighs 4.75 pounds per cubic foot ; when the same is laid on one inch boards, it weighs 7.75 pounds per cubic foot. Slate 0,1 ,875 inch thick on laths and boards weighs seven and nine pounds respectively. A 0.25 inch slate weighs 9.15 and 11. 25 pounds respectively  The thickest kind, gauging 0.3,2 10 inch, weighs 11.15 pounds and 14.10 pounds on laths and boards.

A slate roof composed of 6 X I 3 inch slate weighs

1,680 pounds per square, and requires 480 slates. A

l0 x 20 inch weighs 6,720 pounds, and requires 171

slates per square. A 12 X 24 inch slating requires 125

slates, and weighs 4,480 pounds. Stone.

<article title=" ROOFING TILES OF WOOD PULP " author="">

ROOFING TILES OF WOOD PULP.

ONE of the latest things in the way of roofing tile is made of wood pulp, the goods being turned out by an enterprising Norwegian firm doing business in Christian The roofing material is known as Norway tiles, the pulp under high pressure being formed into thin cakes of sizes similar to ordinary roofing slate. After a chemical treatment, which is the inventor's secret, the tiles become hard like brick, and attain a deep black appearance, which lends itself admirably to give a soft tone to houses with prominent roofs and gables. It is claimed for the Norway tiles that they possess every advantage of the best slate in the market ; their composition makes them light and durable, and they are not so liable to breakage as ordinary slate. They are not subject to any expansion or contraction, and when a roof is once covered with this material, it will stand for a good many years without any repairs whatever. Prominent architects in Norway who have had the opportunity to examine the tiles pronounce them superior as to quality, appearance and price, and the insurance companies seem to regard them as a very desirable and safe roofing material.



The town of St. Johns, Que., has granted a bonus of $20,000 to " La Societe Anonyme des Fainciers de Canada," of France. This is the company which has been negotiating for the St. Johns Stone Chinaware Company's potteries, the granting of the bonus practically closing the deal. The terms of the bonus are $2,000 per annum for ten years, conditionally upon the company employing not less than 150 hands for 11 months in the year with a pay roll of not less than $40,000 a year. It is understood that possession of the property in St. Johns will be taken almost immediately, and that these potteries will shortly be operated on a large scale. The new concern is made up of wealthy and practical men, and their intention is to manufacture, not only ordinary crockery, but a fine class of porcelain ware on a large scale.



The striking carpenters in Buffalo have given information that contractors were importing alien labor from Canada, and the authorities are taking steps to prosecute the offenders.

