<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



THE LATE MR. J. B. RESTHER.

<article title=" THE LATE MR. J. B. RESTHER " author="">

THE late Jean Baptiste Resther, architect, of Montreal, One., whose death on the 4th \ at the age of 66 years, was briefly noted in our May issue, was born in Montreal, July 17th, 1830. He was the son of the late John Ignace Resther, a contractor of that city, and brother of the Rev. Father Resther, of the Jesuit Order. He received his education in the Christian Brothers school and under private tutors. Mr. Resther rafter spending a short time as dry goods clerk, commenced with his father as Clerk of Works for the construction of the Bonsecours Market in 1847. In 1849 he left Montreal for St. Hyacinthe, where he was contractor for lie college. He subsequently took a contract for the building of all the stations for the G T. R., from St. Thomas





















































down to Riviere do Loup. While in St. hyacinthe lie was for several years a member of the Council. In 1867 lie returned to Montreal, and opened an office as architect, arbitrator and valuator, in which profession he had a large practice. lie erected a large number of private and public buildings in and around Montreal, the Exhibition Buildings among others. In 1884 Mr. Rest —her was chosen first vice—president of the St. Jean Baptiste Association, in which lie had always taken a deep interest. lie was a leading member of the Architects' Association of the Province of Quebec Vie was connected with many important cases of arbitration for tile government, railway corporations, etc., in which he distinguish him self.



CHIPS.



A consignment of slates of excellent quality has recently been received in England from Canada.

The organization of a master plum hers' association in Hamilton has been effected. The officers are: Win. Fairley, president W. J. Walsh, vice-president Hugh Wallace, secretary Adam Clarke, treasurer Wm. South, sentinel.

The president of the Carpenters' and Joiners' Union of British North America recently interviewed the Controller of Customs urging the necessity of reducing tile duty upon certain tools used by carpenters and joiners. Some special classes of tools cannot lie obtained in Canada, and on these purchasers are obliged to pay a large duty.

At a recent meeting of the local Board of health at Toronto, the Metrical Health Officer informed the board that be intended exercising a personal supervision of the inspection of plumbing, anti with that end in view he had given instructions that all applications for inspection must be made at tile office, and would be attended to in order of

priority. He promised that there should not be any delay in the work, and requested that, if there is any, the matter be reported to him at once.

The old lodge at the west corner of Queen street and University avenue, Toronto, the only survival of four similar structures placed at different entrances to the University anti Queen's Park, has been demolished within the past fortnight. It was built by Mr. J. G. Howard, architect and civil engineer, in the year 1832. Its companion, formerly situated on the opposite corner, was torn down sonic t2 years ago. These two lodges were occupied respectively by Mark Fitzpatrick and George Stacey, who acted as caretakers and gatekeepers at the two entrances.

PERSONAL.



Mr. F. H. Herbert, architect, Toronto, has removed to new offices in York Chambers, 9 Toronto street.

Mr. W. H. Carrick, vice-president of the Gurney Foundry Co., of Toronto, sailed on the steamer Umbria for Great Britain.

Mr. R. C. J. Donn, architect, St. John, N. B. has removed to new quarters in the Vaughan building on Prince William street.

Mr. Joseph Simmons, builder, of London, Ont., is incapacitated from his duties by a sprained wrist, the result of a fall from his wagon.

Mr. Eugene C. Larose, architect, formerly in the employ of Mr. James R. Brown, architect, of Montreal, has taken up his residence ill Ottawa.

Miss Laura Cooper, daughter or Mr. Jos. Cooper, contractor, of Ottawa, was recently married to Mr. Wm. Dewar, of the Canada Atlantic Railway.

Mr. Louis Citampeau, a well-known contractor of Montreal, died at Cote ties Neiges on the 4th inst., at tile age of 72 years. lie was taking a rest at his summer cottage.

Tile wedding is announced of Miss Bertha Wright, of Ottawa, anti Mr. Robert Carr Harris, C. E., Professor of civil engineering anti architecture at the Royal Military College, Kingston.

Mr. C. M. Robertson secretary-treasurer of the Janise Robertson Co., Ltd., Toronto, is receiving the congratulations of his friends upon his recent marriage. the bride is Miss West, of the same city.

Messrs. W. j. Burroughes A. Fiddes anti Joseph Wright will look after the interests (If the toaster plumbers of Toronto anti the west at the approaching convention in Montreal to organize a Dominion Association 

Mr. James Sinclair, contract or, of Toronto, with his wife and family, have left for an extended tour in Europe Mr. Sinclair is a native of Sutherlandshire, Scotland where his presence will be welcomed by his many friends.

A visitor to Winnipeg recently was Mr. J. E. Murphy, of Owen Sound, Ont., vice-president of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Company. His purpose was to introduce his material amongst architects and builders

While Mr. John Dryan, contractor, of London, was driving on Clarence street, his rig collided with a trolley car, by which he was thrown out upon the pavement. He was rendered unconscious, although not seriously injured.

Mr. John Allen, the well-known contractor of Montreal, has accepted the invitation to represent St. Antoine ward in the City Council, to succeed lion. A. W. Atwater, who resigned when he accepted the portfolio of Provincial Treasurer. Mr. Allen is an enterprising business man, and has executed many large contracts.

A well-known builder in the person of Mr. James Edgar, of Toronto, is dead. Mr. Edgar had suffered for some time from inflammatory rheumatism, which resulted in this death at the age of 75 years. Mr. Edgar was foreman under Mr. John Worthington at the building of St. James Cathedral, University College and the forts at Quebec.

A worthy citizen and prominent contractor of Toronto was removed

the death of Mr. Robert Rennie, which occurred towards the close of the month of May. The deceased was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, on March 7th, 1822. In the year 1854 he came out to Montreal, where he lived for a few months and then removed to Toronto, where he has resided ever since. On settling in Toronto he entered into partnership with Mr. G. Duthic carrying on business as roofers. After being in business with Mr. Duthie for a few years they dissolved partnership, and Mr. Rennie commenced business in the same line on his own account. About ten years ago his son, Robert B., was taken into partnership, under the name of Robert Rennie & Son. The firm remained in business until about two years ago, when he retired leaving the business in the hands of his son, who still continues it tinder the old firm name. Mr. Rennie was noted for his upright business dealing and punctuality, lie was a Presbyterian in religion, anti a staunch Reformer in politics.





Frank Dean, jr., of Hamilton, Ont., is applying for patents on a brick kiln to burn all hard brick with soft coal. Formerly the)- have been burned with wood, anti in consequence a great many soft brick have to be used in the construction of buildings, soaking up a great deal of dampness as a result.

An Alexandria exchange says that Mr. Borque, the contractor for the new Dominion Reformatory, has commenced the work of laying the walls. A boom derrick for horse power has been erected, anti another one is about completed. It is, we believe, intended to dress the stone at the quarry, so that it will be ready for use whets laid down at the site of the building

