IN..

CANADA

GREY LIME of Superior Setting Quality shipped in car lots to dealers.





Office:	84 Adelaide St. West, TORONTO

Telephone 208.

<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" DOMINION MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION " author="">

DOMINION MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION.

On July 2nd next there will be held in the city of Montreal a convention of master plumbers of the Dominion, with the main object of forming a Dominion Association. At present local Associations exist at Montreal, Toronto, Halifax, St. John, London, Quebec and other points, the former being the only one incorporated by the government, and capable of entering and defending legal suits as an Association.

The existing Association in Montreal was formed in August, 1884. Previous to that time there existed an Association which was amalgamated with the Contractors' Association as a branch. In the following year an Association was formed in Toronto. These two branches can justly be said to be the father of the present movement for the formation of an Association representing the Dominion, and it is pleasing to know that the promoters have received every encouragement and hope that their efforts will be crowned with success.

All the preliminaries in connection with the convention have not yet been arranged, but from a number of cities and towns word has been received that delegates will be sent. The local Associations will be maintained as at present, and where possible new ones organized, by whom all local questions will be considered.

The Dominion organization will grapple with such questions as affect the trade generally, and by its means it is hoped to accomplish many needed reforms in the plumbing by-laws of the various cities which will ultimately result beneficially to the public at large.

It is the intention to amalgamate with the Master Plumbers' Association of the United States.

It is claimed that too often the persons who comprise the Board of Health in our cities are men entirely

unfitted for the position, with little knowledge of the duties which they are called upon to perform.



Such being the case, the plumber is often called upon to execute work in a manner which he knows to be defective, but which he is, nevertheless, obliged to carry out.

It is hoped the master plumbers will be successful in organizing a strong Association which will be the means of raising the status of the trade and also prove a benefit to thc public at large.





A DISSENTIENT view.

To thc Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER





SIR, With your permission I would like to express my dissent from the view stated in an editorial paragraph in THE ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for May on the subject of farm house architecture. In the paragraph referred to pleasure is expressed at seeing pressed brick, plate and colored glass employed of late in the construction of this class of buildings. On the contrary, I think it a matter for regret that such materials should be used. The ideal farm house is one constructed with local materials and in a style as far removed as possible from that of the city residence. It should have an air of homely comfort. Nothing is to my mind more out of place than a farm house with the appearance of having been designed for a 25—foot city lot. I have in mind such a house erected by the M. P. for a rural constituency. A little way distant from it stands an old fashioned farm house with low eaves and long facade and verandahs facing the highway The contrast is strongly in favor of the older house. The practice of importing city houses into the country should be discouraged.

CITY ARCHITECT.



CREDIT FORKS MINING & MFG. 00.

(FORMERLY CARROLL & \ VICK

	84 Adelaide St. W.	-	TORONTO

Brown	Stone Quarries,  Credit Forks, Ont.

Supply the Best.

DIMENSION	COURSING

RANDOM	SHODDY

HEADS, SILLS	RUBBLE

BROWN STONE

Since we used Mica

to cover our flues the insurance companies have reduced our rate." That is what the Allan Mfg. Co. writes to us. After a series of tests, the Boiler Inspection and Insurance Co., of Canada, says of it: Its non—conducting property, its durability, and its portability, unite in making it the most effective and convenient boiler covering on the market." The Toronto Dredging and Contracting Co. says ''It has effected a saving of coal of about 25 The Toronto Ferry Co. found a saving of 2O; the Aylesbury Dairy Co of 330



THE MICA BOILER COVERING CO.

9 Jordan St, TORONTO

