<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	75



strength of only 8 per cent., although the superficial layer of concrete was applied immediately after the arch itself had been built.

The arches of corrugated iron deflected at the crown very much more than either the concrete and Monier arches.

The arch which had 2.3x2 3-inch angles riveted to the edges of the iron proved about 13 per cent. the stronger.

THIRD SERIES.-~ Span of 13 feet 3.6 inches.

The brick arch, 4 7/8 inches thick, with a rise of 1334 inches, commenced to crack under an eccentric load of 37.5 pounds per square foot, showing that it was much too weak for the purpose.

The concrete arch, 3 15/16 inches thick, with a rise of 15 7/8 inches, failed under an eccentric load of 812 pounds per square foot.

The Monier arch, 2 inches thick, with a rise of 15 1/2 inches, failed under an eccentric load of 895 pounds per square foot. The deflections of this arch were somewhat greater than those of the concrete arch.

After the above arches had been tested a new system appeared, the Melan patent, and an arch of this type being constructed by the manufacturers, it was tested in 1893 by the same committee.

This arch which had a span of 13 feet 11 inches and a rise of 11.4 inches, was constructed of curved ribs of 3 1/8-inch I-beams, spaced 3 feet 3 inches apart, with to concrete rammed in between The thickness of the arch was the same as that of the I-beams, 3 1/8 inches. On account of the lack of material the loading of this arch was interrupted after 1,412 pounds per square foot, over one half of the arch, had been imposed. The





















Fig. 6.—CONCRETE ARCH WITH MASONRY ABUTMENT.



permanent changes discovered after the removal of this load were very slight.

The report states From the behavior of this construction there is no doubt that these vaults have a far superior carrying capacity than either the plain concrete or the Monier arch.

Aside from the great strength displayed by the Melan arch, which may be considered as a direct outcome of these tests, the most important fact developed is the superiority of the plain concrete arch, from a commercial point of view, over the Monier arch.

The ordinary Monier arch consists of wire netting imbedded in the concrete. To hold the netting the concrete must not be coarser than to 3, which makes this system much more expensive than the plain concrete arch.

Referring to the two types of arches, the report says: Compared with a plain concrete arch, a concrete arch with one wire netting has shown but little more carrying capacity, so that the difference cannot have any importance to the ordinary building practice.

Engineers have for a long time recommended Monier arches with two wire nettings for large spans, but it is nearly impossible to use two nettings in a small span.

In making all of the tests careful measurements were made of the deflection under different stages of loading, and these are given in the tables contained in the report.





ILLUSTRATIONS.

SHORING AND STRUTTING. -REPRODUCED FROM



"THE BUILDER."



RESIDENCE, SPADINA ROAD, TORONTO. CURRY, BARER



& CO., ARCHITECTS.



STOKESAY CASTLE.—MEASURED AND DRAWN BY Edward



S WALES.



IN this number of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER I give the ground plan and what we should call the first floor plan of this interesting old building, together with the elevation to the court yard and elevations of the north and south towers, and also a section through the great hail. There has already appeared in this paper a measured drawing of the gate house, in the New Year Number a sketch of the castle from the northwest corner, and in the May number a photographic reproduction of the Solar room.

The plans, I think, will be found interesting. Whether the founder of the house originally intended it for defence is not very apparent. The site at the foot of the hill would in these days be completely at the mercy of modern warfare. The gables and mullioned windows of the house are more suggestive of domestic life, and are so placed that attack would be easy from across the moat. The tower and moat bespeak a troubled time, when the owners found it expedient to strengthen their dwelling against their enemies. So we must consider it an early example of a moated dwelling rather than a castle or stronghold like its neighbor, Ludlow.

Little alteration seems to have taken place through the chances and changes that have leveled so many other similar buildings of that period ; thus it has a special interest to the archaeologist. The moat was originally supplied from a pool which existed on the west side, and this by a small stream which ultimately flowed into the river Onny. Whether it was used to supply the moat to the original building is not easy to determine, and the depth cannot now be fixed. It is used as a garden and the ground is of different levels. A string course which runs round the hail and south tower is wanting round the northern one, and the masonry being also of a ruder description, indicating this to be the earliest portion of the structure. The batten on the base of this north tower and the depth of the foundations at this part, show that this portion was moated, a defence with which nearly all the earlier habitations were provided.

The gate-house replaces the original drawbridge, and the court yard was evidently surrounded by a strong parapet, pierced for cross-bows, of which the only remaining part is a few feet abutting on the south tower. Traces of foundations, probably of timber structures, which were usually built up to the parapet, can he traced near the north tower, and may have been used as stables, etc. On the opposite side stands the great hall, and at its southern end the Solar or withdrawing room, with the offices of the household. These would be the private apartments of the lord of the castle, and by the two squints his lordship could keep his eye on the retainers in the great hall below, which at night became the common dormitory for guests and servants. Then even in palaces the common sleeping place was a bench or the floor, which was covered with rushes; while a crib with a straw couch was probably the only furniture in a lady's bed-chamber. The priest and probably the principal guests were housed in the north tower. The south tower was intended as a last defence in case of siege, there being no indication of a drawbridge existing in place of the gangway. There is no doubt that it was always a temporary structure that could be easily destroyed. A covered way, probably of half timber, at. one time led from the lower door to the Solar, as indicated by the string weathering under the window.

However picturesque these old buildings may look, the domestic arrangements must have been very draughty even in their best days. The well proportioned windows to the hall, mullioned and transomed with trefoils and circle, are excellent specimens of early English tracery, grooved in the upper parts for sashes, and in the lower, instead of grooves, holes sunk for iron bars, and supplied with shutters. Before the twelfth century glass was a

