<doctype type="text">

the stuff together. If any difficulty arises in getting down the floor on account of the machine work, the flooring should be discarded at once, as it is the height of folly to wrestle with a lot of badly matched flooring. It will pay two or three times over to have the stuff run through the machine again than to fool away time in trying to make a good job with impossible materials. Well matched flooring should ''lay down " with ease and the edge joints should be invisible. In tongue or blind nailing there is no necessity for breaking the tongue where each nail is driven, neither is there any necessity for the mark of the hammer to bc seen wherever there is a nail. A man who will persistently leave '' his X mark," engraved with a claw—hammer, on every joint of flooring, should be taken from the work at once and given something to do more suitable to his capacity. By a proper cutting of lengths, from 5 to 15 per cent. of the material may be saved, and the shrewd workman, who has the interest of his employer at heart, will always manage the disposition of his butt joints " so as to have a minimum of waste. When a man tills a room with sheet ends of flooring while laying, he may be put down as an extravagant floor layer. It may be he can lay more surface in a day than another man who does not have so many butt ends, but as a matter of fact, the man who puts down the lesser surface of floor and makes less waste, is often the more

profitable man for the contractor. The slasher and rusher who gets in a lot of work each day at an extra waste of material, is profitable only to those who use kindling wood.



IN country places where lime has to be hauled a long distance, proper provision should be made for its preservation when it arrives at the works. In a damp atmosphere a cartage of ten or twelve miles may cause a load of lime to be partly slaked before it reaches its destination, and in cases of that kind, it would be better when possible, to run it in the bed at once and finish the slaking; then nearly the full virtue of the lime may be captured. When this can not be done the lime should be put in a dry place and used as soon as possible. Lime should never be stored in a cellar or in any place where it is damp, as it will lose half its virtue in a very short time in such a place, and the mortar made with it will never give satisfaction. Good live sand is a necessary requisite for making good mortar, and the contractor should see to it that such is furnished to the

plasterer. Dead sand, while easy to work, never makes a good job, and mortar made with it soon rots and crumbles away from the wall. It is the silica in the sand that combines with the lime, that forms the hard solid mortar we find on sonic of our 01(1 houses. Good long hair that has been washed, should be used in the mortar in proper proportions to insure good work. Plasterers, as a rule, stilt the hair in their mortar as a matter of economy, but this is wrong, and in a measure dishonest. To insure good and lasting work, the mortar should not be used until it has been made at least ten days. It will be better to stand fourteen days if conditions will permit. The best results in plaster work are obtained with well made mortar that has been made one month or more before being used.



MUCH carelessness, and consequently much loss, are connected with the piling up of rough lumber prepare

 Lime and Mortar. tory to being used in a building. We have frequently seen joists, studding, rafters, roof-boarding and rough sheeting, thrown off a wagon or sleigh pell-mell without any attempt made to prevent the breaking, splitting or warping, and left in an open pile, exposed to the weather, and perhaps in such a position that it would be trampled over by the workmen or others. The breaking of a joist, a stud or a rafter, or the splitting of a board, or the warping or twisting of any of them out of shape, is loss that will be felt at the wind-up of the work, and the multiplication of these breaks, splits and twists, often make invisible gaps in the profits, and the shrewd contractor will insist on having all his stuff properly and carefully piled in the grounds, and covered with rough boards to keep out the weather, or will otherwise protect his materials. More money is made by giving prompt attention to little matters of this sort, than in

rushing" the work in undue haste. A careful workman must have time to make good work, and a careful workman will, as a rule, save to his employer in material whatever it costs in extra time to do the work ; besides producing work that brings honor to employer and workman.



No good house, frame, brick or stone, should be without one or two fire-places in it, and in the country villages and towns, where the contractor has much to do with designing the house, he should make it a point to impress on the owner the importance of having open fire-places of some sort in the house. When only one of these can be in the house, it should be in the dining-room, as that is the room where the family will be the most of the time they are in the house together. If two or more fire-places can be placed in the house, then one should be in the dining—room, one in the parlor, and a third in the bed—room that is oftenest occupied. If the fire—place is intended for wood altogether, it may be built without a grate, as fire—dogs or andirons may he used on a thick cement or brick hearth. It would be better, however, to build in grates in all the fire-places, as then the opening would be less and the chimney draught could be better regulated. A good English grate, with tile facings, can be purchased for $15 or $16, and it can be made to do good service with wood as well as with coal. Of course, in our Canadian climate, open fire-places can not be depended on for heating during midwinter, but in spring and fall, when stoves are taken down, or heating by steam, hot-water or hot-air, is discontinued, they do the work effectually. They also act as health preservers, as no device yet put in practice in domestic architecture, can equal the open grate as a mode of ventilation. Where cost is not a great obstacle, it would be better to have an open fireplace in the dining-room without grate, having a "basket" in place. These baskets cost about as much as an English grate—perhaps a little more if damper, etc., are included, And the fire-place will require a little more work to make it suited to the basket. The whole chimney heart may be of exposed brick work. The upper portion above the shelf may drop back four inches, and a neat plain cornice may project from the heart under the shelf, forming a finish, with the shelf' (which should he of hardwood) of a mantel. The skillful bricklayer should be able to make a handsome brick mantel if he picks his stock, rubs their faces, lays in fine mortar, and lines tip his joints. In a mantel of this kind there is a big opportunity for the bricklayer to display his skill. This makes a mantel without wood, save and excepting the shelf, which may or may not have a moulded edge to suit the brickwork.

