<doctype type="text">86	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" TRUTH IN ARCHITECTURE " author="Doran, W. E.">

TRUTH IN ARCHITECTURE.

By W. E. DORAN, Architect, Montreal.

(Concluded from May Number.)

there is no such thing as human perfection, yet the law says his work must be perfect—not only his own work, but lie is obliged to see that the work of every cheap Jack whom the cupidity of his client obliges him to employ shall he perfect lie must be omniscient lie must know beforehand the nature of every soil, its powers of sustaining weight, the nature of every kind of material used in construction, its power of resistance to strains of every description, to time and to weather, the nature and strength of all cements and mortars, the value of all paints and pigments he must be proficient in sanitary science, in all manners and fads of heating and ventilation, in all the details of electrical appliances. In a word, lie must be master of all the arts and sciences to a certain extent, and then his powers of observation most be limitless; he must foresee against all possible flaws in materials, all willful or unintentional delinquencies on the part of builders ; as a consequence lie is not pro— found, his knowledge is encyclopedic and smattering—lie can belong to no particular school ; in fact we can hardly recognize any such thing as a school in architecture to—day.

Again national characteristics have almost ceased to exist. In the olden times, when travel was rare, national characteristics were developed by isolation from the rest of the world ; a pupil followed exactly in his master's footsteps and improved thereon as far as in him lay. If he did travel, what he sought was to improve his own knowledge, and to graft on his own style anything his taste would find congenial to it, not for the introduction of absolutely new and startling effects. He worked in supreme disdain of the multitude ; to—day lie must please the popular fancy, he must show himself original, even if he must copy from semi—barbarians to appear so.

The multiplication of the process of illustrations also makes



familiar with the work of the world, hence the almost unconscious plagiarism exhibited by the architects of the world, mutually

	from	other	hardly know which is on

borrowing	each	until we original



—at least it looks as if there was a common stock of ideas and designs—the only really original productions of this age being crystal palaces and the tall office buildings, and perhaps I should add the great hotels and the plutocrats' dwellings. When I speak of crystal palaces I include as such the large retail stores —the skeletons which frame the plate glass that displays the wealth of merchandise. These necessitated metal construction, and the progress seemed fair enough till greed and the desire to make the most use of land regardless of the right of neighbors to light and air called into existence the monstrosities of seventeen and twenty stories, now promising to reach out to thirty. Dryden, writing of the column of London, said, like a tall bully it lifts its head and lies.'' Now this was a libel on the column ; it was the inscription which was at fault ; but it can be truly said of the modern building that it is in itself a series of lies——the very perspective which the architect makes is taken from a point about half way up. They surely do not imagine the spectator is going on the roof of a moderate sized building or to hang on to one of the cornices of a sister monstrosity v in order to view the building. Lie No.

Again, the eyes sees piers of brickwork extending skywards ostensibly to support the building which we instinctively know could not support its own weight ; we are told the skeleton construction inside of this is all right, the steel work supports the pier the pier protects the steel and the whole is fireproof Lie No. 2. Lie No. 3. The whole frame work depends, for retaining its circular upon being tied together in all its harts. The destruction of a few rivets may mean the toppling over of the whole mass. It is a construction requiring, as in bridges, care and supervision, arid sometimes renewal of parts, which, enclosed with brick and cement, it can riot have. Liable to corrosion, the damp of water services and waste pipes everywhere will hasten the inevitable work of time ; the multitude of wires for electrical purposes adds the danger of electrolysis. Granting such a building may survive its designer, has any man a right to commit murder on the unborn? Have we a right to build to-day that which in after years will probably collapse without warning.

It is true that when we build we are not bound to insure permanency, but we are bound in the name of humanity and morality to build in such a way that our structures shall give timely warning of their decay. Truth requires it. I do not wish to be understood as decrying the use of iron and steel in buildings, but what I do advocate is that this construction be tested by the principles of truth, and that the material be protected by coating with

copper or other metals which if it cannot prevent decay, will at 'east retard it, and further will leave any defects that may come, and, which inevitably do appear in all human work, visible to those who might stiffer therefrom. There is no such thing as simplicity. This use of exposed iron or steel would therefore lead to an architecture special to itself, and proportions suitable to such construction.

The other two forms of construction, the grand hotel, and the private mansion of the wealthy man, naturally seek the renaissance in their outward form of expression. the renaissance affords the best opportunity of doing this ; it lends itself readily, and is universally, and I think rightly, so employed

'Will architecture emancipate itself from these conditions and how ? It will take its proper l)lace in modern history when architects adopt modern methods, and the most prominent of these is specialist. In any part specialist is founded upon the principles of its professors being themselves truthful, that is being prepared to admit that while having some knowledge of all the branches of their art or profession, they excel in one or possibly more than one, at all events in a limited number only, and that while claiming pre-eminence in these only, they will call in the aid and assistance of others in relation to branches for which they have neither the inclination nor the time to devote themselves so fully—and these others in their turn would in a similar way consult the former on their specialties and profit by their advice and assistance. Unless a movement of this kind become general it is almost impossible to have it, as naturally A will not consult 13 on one point if B be not prepared to consult A on another, as this would be an admission of inferiority on A's ; neither will A and B be prepared to openly consult each other whilst C D E and all others pretend to universal knowledge, and the public, their clients, believe them. The first step must be the formation of partnerships, each member of the firm having his particular forte and confining his attention to it.

This will educate the public to the necessity for specialist in architecture as well as in medicine In the meantime what can individual architect did) towards improving the condition of things, and what course can we recommend to our students ? Shall we recommend them to neglect all branches excel)t the One  they feel they excel in By no means, but what I should recommend is that while following the general practice of the all round man in its most useful and ordinary branches t hey should develop sonic point in which they know they can and will excel, for the day of the specialist is coming and soon the all round man will be regarded as a quack. In the meantime every architect, and everyone aspiring to be such, should follow Carlyle's advice,

Avoid shams,'' and if there is anything in him produce it.

Of course in cases where circumstances require a certain style to be followed the architect must try and work out his plan so that they will lend themselves as much as possible to it, but when the architect is at liberty in the choice of style it seems to that the plan should be first developed and studied to a certain extent, and its peculiarities should in a minor degree govern the choice of style, the major consideration being always suitability to the purposes for which the building is intended. If the building be of such a character that no particular style be indicated or required, I think it much preferable to proceed on one's own judgment, arid not attempt any labored work when only simplicity is demanded. But if a certain style be chosen, I think the architect should adhere strictly to it as nearly as possible provided lie has chosen to follow the period in which that style has reached its zenith

If, on the contrary, he has chosen aim early transitional period, or one in which the style has shown deterioration, he certainly has the same liberty as had the workers of the period which lie has chosen to follow in making changes, but these should always tend to bring his work nearer to the best ideal rather than to still further draw it away. while circumstances may sometimes require the use of transitional or debased styles, I think nothing can justify an architect in adopting for the sake of picturesqueness anything that was originally done merely in imitation of better work by men who were ignorant or untrained On the other hand for the sake of constructive truth, no one should for the sake of strict adherence to style resort to deception.

There is such a thing as conventional truth, amid this should never be violated. It makes one shudder to see in an otherwise

pleasing building, a bug lintel seemingly composed of a number of stones not only hanging in the air, but supporting sometimes an important pier of the superstructure

Again we see a rounded corner of a building with a lintel which

