<doctype type="text">

























<article title=""THE BUILDER."" author="">

"THE BUILDER."

WE have occasionally been met with the complaint on the part of contractors in the building trades that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER contained too little information adapted to the requirements of the master builder and contractor. Recognizing the justice in some measure of this complaint, the size of the journal has with the present number been increased to an extent sufficient to admit of the establishing of this department and the publication therein of a large amount of matter suited to the needs of contractors in the various trades as well as of the country builder who requires to be possessed of some knowledge of every department of building work.

Contractors are invited to ask through this department for any required information which they do not find appearing therein, when every effort will be made to supply it. They are also requested to contribute through this department for the general benefit, anything of value on the line of improved methods of carrying out work, the nature and use of materials, etc. Country builders who have not the same opportunity as their city brethren of becoming acquainted with new materials and methods, should not hesitate to avail themselves of the privilege of asking questions.

If those for whose benefit this department has been especially provided will assist in promoting free interchange of ideas and experiences on the line of their every-day work, a great deal of helpful information will be the outcome.

<article title=" BUILDING AND SANITARY CONSTRUCTION " author="">

BUILDING AND SANITARY CONSTRUCTION.

THE following extracts are taken from a lecture on the above subject to students and clerks of works at Carpenters' Hall, London, Eng., by Professor Banister Fletcher, professor of architecture at King's College:

We call it sanitary building. Why might we not call it, as our forefathers did, simply good, sound building? The first subject is bricks. Nearly all buildings are of brick, or of brick faced with stone.

The essential qualities of a good brick are hardness, not absorbing more than one-sixth its weight of water, well burnt, free from flaws, having a good ring when struck, the surfaces level, neither hollow nor round, except the frog, and the surfaces not too smooth, or the mortar will not adhere. A very highly vitrified brick will only absorb from one-thirteenth to one sixteenth its own weight. The softer stock brick will absorb lb.

oz.	of water; the harder brick about 9 OZ. It must be remembered this result is obtained when we have all the surfaces exposed to the water by immersion in a pail for twenty-four hours. In a recent case it was contended by council that a brick in a building absorbed the same quantity as it did when thus immersed—a strong

example of the weakness of theory without practice. A practical man knows that only one face is exposed to the weather ; if it is a stretcher, then we have only one-fifth of the entire surface exposed, and if a header then still less by one-half. The wall in question had a dust-bin outside, and, it was alleged, was too damp for habitation. As a practical test a brick was taken out just behind the skirting; the painting of the skirting was not injured or blistered in any way, as it would naturally be by the action of damp, and the brick behind was perfectly dry. I cite this to show that theory requires a knowledge of practise to make it of value. An imperfectly burnt brick must be bad because it becomes sodden with water and is easily damaged by frost ; it causes also the wall to be cold and damp. If chalk is present imperfectly ground, the brick is liable to serious flakings. The burning turns the chalk into lime, water reaches it, and the brick is blown, or disintegrated, by the action of the water on the lime. The trog gives a key for the mortar, and keeps the brick in position.

STONE. Durability is the most important item. The most powerful agencies in the destruction of stone are nitric acid, carbonic acid, and the moisture of the atmosphere. Stone in the country ought practically to stand for ever. But in towns it is exposed to the influences of sulphur and hydrochloric acid. Carbonic acid and water causes a great amount of decomposition. The use of porous stone should be specially avoided in facades exposed to the south, south-west or west winds, because from these quarters we get the driving wind and rain. The decomposing gases in the air are driven further in by the rain. Frost increases the bulk of the water and blows out the stone. One way of testing stone is to weigh when dry and after immersion in water, in the same way as the test for brick already mentioned. If you find that the stone does not absorb half a gallon per cubic foot, you may consider it a good building stone. Another test is that of two stones having similar qualities ; that which has the greatest density or specific gravity is the best.

Some of you hereafter may probably be sent down to examine stone at a quarry. To assist you in deciding on the merits of the stone, examine the old buildings in the neighborhood ; the tool-marks should still show on a good stone. Finding the stone in the old building good is not in itself satisfactory. It is necessary further to inquire about the bed from which the stone was quarried ; it may be the bed is exhausted, and beds of stone in the same quarry differ very much. See also that your stone is seasoned. Wren, during the building of St. Paul's, would have no stone used that had not been quarried for three years. The result of this care is that no stone shows signs of decay. A further proof of the necessity of thus getting stone free from sap was

