<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	77

<article title=" MR. KIVAS TULLY, C. E " author="">

MR. KIVAS TULLY, C. E.

WE have the pleasure to present to our readers the accompanying portrait and particulars of the long and active career of Mr. Kivas Tully, C. E., who has recently retired from the active duties of the position of Chief Architect of the Public Works Department of Ontario.

Mr. Tully, second son of the late Commander John

P. Tully, R. N., was born in Queen's County, Ireland, in 1820, educated at the Royal Naval School, Canterwell, London, England, and served his time as architect and civil engineer with the late W. H. Owen, architect and civil engineer, Limerick. After serving his time he was engaged in the erection of workhouses in Ireland, under Mr. Wilkinson, architect for the Poor Law Commissioners, having acted as inspector of buildings during the latter portion of 1843. In 1844 Mr. Tully emigrated to Canada and started business in Toronto as an architect and civil engineer. [hiring 1845 the Custom Flouse and Bank of Montreal on the corner of Front and Yonge streets, recently pulled down for the erection of the present structures, were constructed from his designs, after competition with other architects, and in 1848 the town hail and market building were erected by Mr. Tully, after competition. In 1850—51, Trinity College, Toronto, was erected by Mr. Tully, the







































MR. KIVAS TULLY, C. E.



Welland County court house and jail in 1854—55, and the Victoria Hall, Cobourg, in 1857, after competition. In 1855-56-57 Mr. Tully, with Col. R. B. Mason C

of Chicago, as consulting engineer, made the survey of the Toronto and Georgian Bay Ship Canal, and the report was published in 1858, the estimated cost being $22,170,000. In succession to the above the Ontario Ship Railway Company was granted a charter by the Ontario Legislature in 1892, for the construction of a railway to carry ships of 5,000 tons from Georgian Bay to some point on Lake Ontario, to cost $16,ooo. Mr. Tully was appointed chief engineer with E. L. Corthell, C.E., of Chicago, as consulting engineer, and Mr. David Blain, managing director.

In March, 1853 Mr. Tully was appointed engineer by the Toronto Harbor Commissioners, an office which he still holds with the consent of the Government. On the 22nd of March, 1856, the Visiting commissioners of the Asylum for Insane, Toronto, appointed Mr. Tully architect to the asylum, which was afterwards confirmed by His Excellency, the Governor-General, and he has been enrolled as a civil servant since that time. Early in March, 1866 contracts were entered into for the erection of the wings and hospitals of the Asylum for Insane, Toronto, in accordance with his designs, Mr. Tully, by order of the visiting commissioners, having inspected several insane asylums in the United States in the autumn of 1865. The wings, etc., were completed and occupied in 1870 three years after Confederation. In January, 1868, Mr. Tully was transferred to the Department of Public Works, Ontario, the Hon. John Carling being the first Commissioner, and the building of the wings and hospitals was continued under the Commissioner of Public Works. The act organizing the department, which was prepared by Mr. Tully, was

not passed until the 23rd of January, 1869. Under that act Mr. Tully was appointed architect and engineer and chief officer and performed the duties as such until 1874, when the act was amended appointing a separate engineer. At the change of Government in 1871, the lion. Mr. McKellar was sworn in as Commissioner of Public Works, and acted as such until March, 1874, when the Hon. C. F. Fraser was sworn in as Commissioner, and he has continued to act until the present time, a period of upwards of twenty years.

From the year 1856 to the present time, a period of 40 years, the principal public buildings belonging to the province, representing an expenditure of about $7,000,-000, were erected under his superintendence and directions.

Mr. Tully has also served the public as a member of the Board of Public School Trustees of Toronto from 1854 to 1858 inclusive.

<article title=" GUILD OF SCULPTURE OF ONTARIO " author="">

GUILD OF SCULPTURE OF ONTARIO.

IN response to an invitation made by the Council of the above Guild, which has been formed for the encouragement and training in sculpture, and its allied crafts, a numerously attended meeting of representative artists and workers in the various branches of the plastic arts, including practitioners in marble, stone, wood, metals, art pottery and decorative plaster, was held on Friday last at the studio of Mr. Hamilton MacCarthy, R.C.A.

The object of the meeting was to organize an associate membership, and formulate the basis for holding the first exhibition of the combined plastic arts, which, it was decided to inaugurate in the fall, From the enthusiasm shown at the meeting the project promises every success, and from the well-known talents of the ladies and gentlemen, both professional and amateur, who have thrown themselves into the movement, public interest and advantage cannot fail to result when the exhibition takes place. Ontario has already become the home of many artists of the brush whose works have done honor to the country, both at borne and abroad, and sonic excellent public monuments, the work of Canadian sculptors, adorn a number of our Canadian cities, and it is of equal importance, not only from an artistic point of view, but also from a mercantile point of view, that both our sculptors and craft-workers should attain excellence in the subsidiary branches of the sculptors' art which go to affect architecture, decoration, design and manufactures

In several branches of the sculptors' art Canada is still in its infancy for instance, in metal work, in the goldsmiths' art in which the Italians in the time of Cellini became so famous in the designing and chasing of trophies racing cups and other ornaments in metal.

The work of the hammer in iron, associated with the name of Guinton Matsys, we are glad to see has come into vogue, also the production and treatment of bronze, forming, perhaps, the most beautiful medium, as well as the most endurable material for the work of the sculptor.

In carving in stone our artists have attained much proficiency in Gothic and Romanesque, but little has been done in the human figure. Carving in wood is making some progress in ornament and low relief, yet as in stone much remains to be done in the higher branches.

There is also a field open for a Canadian art pottery. In Europe and the United States national schools of art pottery have been established with great success, and with the many fine clays we possess in this country, there is no reason why a Canadian faience should not come into repute both for home and export, and give employment for ladies and gentlemen of taste and skill. We may further mention the desirability of attaining excellence in designing and modeling of interior decorations in plaster of Paris. Terra cotta is also one of the best materials for expressing the Conceptions of the sculptor in the figure from the fact of the clay retaining the original impress and touch of the artist's handiwork.

The formation of a society, having for its object the cultivation training, and encouragement of the plastic arts exclusively, is not only a novelty, but will be an acquisition to our art cults, and we have no doubt, when the exhibition is held, it will be, not only interesting arid instructive, hut a revelation to the public.

Mr. L. R. O'Brien, R. C. A., an artist who has taken a lively interest in every branch of the fine arts, is president of the Guild, and the Council include several of our best known sculptors and architects 

The membership of the Guild Contains a large number of prominent citizens who have taken an active interest in the success of the Guild The associate members will be exclusively composed  practical a t workers in some branch of sculpture. An art union in connection with the Guild has been formed, and two beautiful busts of Canadian heroes, General Sir Isaac Brock and Tecumsch have been prepared in terra cotta for distribution to subscribers specimens of which may he seen at Messrs. Matthews Bros., Yonge street.

The Guild feels sure that the public may look forward to the coming exhibition with great interest.

<article title=" C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION " author="">

C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

SEVERAL drawings have been received in the students' Competition for a cover design for the next New Year number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, but there has not been time for the judges to make their report thereon. The result will be made known in our July number.

