	<doctype type="text">102	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



























<article title=" Taking Quantities " author="">

Taking Quantities.

IN taking measurements where the work is done by the yard, as in painters work, hardwood finishing, kalsomining

and plastering, it is always the best to use a tape-line, then all the breaks, quirks and mouldings can be measured and properly credited. In measuring painting this is very important for running a line around all the corners and quirks of moulded panels adds a large percentage to the total amount, and where the work is piece work, by the yard, the workman is entitled to the full measurement. If the exterior of a house is painted at so much per yard, and the building is a frame one and sided in the ordinary manner, the painter is entitled to payment for the edges of the siding or clapboarding, which, in a building, 24 feet high, would make quite a difference in the result. Twenty-five feet would require forty—eight tiers of siding, and each tier would add one— half inch of surface measurement, or twenty—four inches to the whole height. Let us suppose the building to be fifty feet long, then we should get 100 more surface feet than the face of the building would measure, which would make a little over eleven yards, an item worth looking after. At a meeting of the Master Painters and Decorators of the United States, in Baltimore, some time ago, a schedule of methods of measurements and prices was decided upon, and this, with a number of rules and regulations governing the association, were published in book form for the guidance of painters and decorators throughout the whole United States The work also gives many hints regarding various styles of work that are valuable and useful. The book, we believe, sells for TWO dollars to non-members of the association, and something less to members. The art of taking correct measurements is worth acquiring to the workman who does job work, for it is the little kinks in his work that make profit or loss, and he should be able to watch these kinks and turn them to his advantage.



THERE has always existed more or less misunderstanding anent the quantities claimed by the plasterer, and

where these quantities have been a subject of dispute it has always been found impossible for two measurements to agree indeed, the plasterer himself cannot measure a building of any pretentions twice and get the same result each time. This may seem strange, but it is true, and, of course, there is a cause for it. In some localities the plasterer claims and gets full measure for all openings, in other places he gets half the openings, and in others, again, the openings are counted against him. Then again, the practice in some places is to give the plasterer the full height of a room, base and cornice included, while in others he is allowed the base but not the cornice, while yet in others he is allowed neither

The Plasterer's Measurements. <article title=" The Plasterer's Measurements " author="">

base or cornice. Again, it has never been decided what constitutes an opening. Some say an opening is just the space between the jambs of a door or window, while others claim that the opening is over all the wood trimmings, so if the casings were six inches wide, and the door three feet, then the opening would be four feet wide, the same with the windows. The following, however, which is taken from Vogdes, who is an authority on such matters, is generally considered fair and equitable all round. Plastering should be measured by the yard, nine square feet making one yard, and according to custom, no deductions is made for doors, windows and other openings which do not exceed sixty-three square feet. This is the custom that should obtain in Canada, in justice to the plasterer. In measuring closets another author says "it is customary to add half of the contents, and if the shelves and strips are in before plastering, double the contents. Small gables and other inaugural pieces are counted square. These extra allowances are made to make up for extra labor of lathing and plastering such pieces of work. We can offer no objections to the measurements, as it is well known to workmen that it takes more time to lath and plaster these irregular places than if the walls offered straightforward work. With regard to the cornices and enriched work, Vogdes says "cornices that are plain running members are charged by the running foot, but enriched or carved mouldings are charged by the lineal foot. Paneled work, whether on walls or ceilings, run with a mould, should be rated by the foot superficial." In this case it seems the intention of Mr. Vogdes to charge as for plain work first, where the cornice is placed, and then for the cornice afterwards. This is probably just, as the plasterer has first to lath and then render the wall, before it is in condition to receive the cornice. For circular and elliptical work, two prices should be charged, and for domes or groined ceilings, three prices, lie also states that for every twelve feet in height above the first floor, five per cent. should be obtained. These charges may look somewhat formidable on the face, but they are no more than long experience has proved to be just and fair between owner and contractor, and if they were universally adopted and adhered to, there would be less disputes between owners of buildings and their contractors.





A BUILDING that is not "well roofed "is in a serious stage of consumption, and should be placed under treatment

at once. If tile roof is one covered with shingles, and not old enough to have its timber in a state of decay, there will be but little trouble in making the roof as ''tight as a drum,' and free from leaks. There is no root in existence that is so easily kept tight as a shingle

Shingled Roofs.

<article title=" Shingled Roofs " author="">