<doctype type="text">

<article title=" COPPER."" author="">

"COPPER."

THE following is an abstract of a paper read by Mr. Nelson Dawson before the Architectural Association of London, Eng.

In talking about metal, its uses and design, the metal-worker, unconsciously perhaps, divides the subject in his own mind into three parts—cast, forged, and sheet. Here are the three different treatments to which nearly every metal can be subjected, and the three processes that the designer can take advantage of in thinking out his design. These practically are also the three different trades into which metal workmen are divided.

It is not until we come to look closely into the thing that we see how widely apart these three branches lie. One may not realise at the first glance that under the heading '' cast" nearly all statuesque and sculptors' metal—work must be done ; and if we do not admit that it '' must " be cast, at least we know that it always has been so up to the present, except in very early days.

For wrought work we may take, as an example, the Eleanor grille in Westminster Abbey, that monument of twelfth—century skill in ironwork.

For treatment of metal in sheet we might instance the elaborate figure—compositions of Cellini's time, that have since then been used to cover shields with, or to beat up a dish for an altar, or to put some repousse' ornament on a cup or other plane surface. Here, indeed, are three very different crafts so widely apart that really we should not wonder that they have become so much split up and separated, or that all metals are not capable of receiving all three treatments satisfactorily. Thus, with copper, we find it is practically useless for casting ; while in forged work we can with difficulty recall anything in this metal, so we are left with sheet, and here really lies the strong point of copper.

The kindliness of copper under the hammer in

practice is a constant surprise ; with care one is able to do almost anything with it to bump it up into relief, and then, if it is wrong, to hammer it all flat and begin again to take a flat piece, and hammer it first into a cup—shape, afterwards drawing in the top and lengthening it upwards until the original piece of sheet—copper is a vase with oval body and long narrow neck. A metal— spinner of much experience said that in their trade the most difficult thing to do was the ordinary stethoscope that doctors use. But a good coppersmith would not make any difficulty about such a shape if he had a good bit of copper to do it with. Formerly the common jelly mould was the triumph of the craft, and it is easy to understand that to make a shape with many pinnacles and castellations from flat sheet, keeping a fairly even thickness and never tearing open the metal, took some skill (one uses the past tense because, probably, being such a very fine sort of craft, it is by this time obsolete, and put aside in favour of a mechanical process, such as stamping).

Repousse' has come to be the general term for all ornamental work raised on sheet-copper by the hammer. The prefix "re" probably means "back," so that it implies that some part of the metal is beaten back. It really hardly matters if, to gain the relief, one beats up

the design from the back, or beats back the background in front pretty much the same end is reached.

In beating up small ornamental work in copper, especially when it is as small as silversmiths require, it is put down on a cement made of pitch and other ingredients. This is melted every time the copper is put down, and, besides holding the metal tightly, offers a slightly yielding material against which to hammer. If, when the copper is on the pitch, we take a punch and make a straight line - indented of course that line will come out on the face of the metal as a clean, sharp line. If, however, we do not put the copper on to any cement at all, but make the indented line on it, as it lies on the wooden bench, it produces a very different effect on the face side. Now the line shows indefinitely, and, instead of the metal being raised just where it was struck, the surrounding part is dragged up too. If an effect were desired between these two extremes, one should place the copper on a half—way material, such as stiff clay or modelling wax. The result of the beating would also be half—way——neither too precise a line nor too blurred.

it will be seen that these three courses are likely to give a considerable range, especially where the metalworker has some artistic capabilities ; but the usual way, which is generally the worse way, is to first trace on the face side of the copper the whole design, with what is practically an incised line, and then slightly bump it up here and there from the back. This is the cheapest and readiest way of getting an effect. But to get the best quality out of copper or any other metal with the repousse' treatment, let the face—side have the least possible amount of work none at all, if it can he helped.

This point is an all—important one architecturally, for this reason That where ornamental copper would be used in a building as a decorative panel a tablet with lettering otherwise it should '' carry," as a sculptor says that is, the design should look clearer at a little distance off than it does close to. A design which is clearly and sharply cut and looks very well close to will not show to advantage at a distance, will not '' carry, in other words, while a design that looks somewhat blurred and indistinct close to becomes quite sharp and clear ten yards off it ' carries " exceedingly well. This is one very good reason for putting all the work possible on the back of the metal, leaving it somewhat blurred in front, and not '' finishing " it, as they say, by chasing and putting a clean hard line around every— thing

One objection that is made regarding copper when used for decoration in a house is that it requires cleaning, or it loses its chief beauty. Well, there is some truth in this, but it is not altogether correct. In the first place, if it be required to keep its own colour, it can be lacquered ; and this, if judiciously done, will last a very long time, and is both easy and cheap to renew when necessary. But copper that is not lacquered

simply left and dusted in the ordinary way by the housemaid when the rest of the house is dusted—will take a most delightful color in time.

There is a whole range of colours that once produced on the copper are not only themselves permanent, but act as a varnish in preventing an action of the atmosphere.

The importance of this fact showed out recently in the case of a memorial—tablet in a church which was

