<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	103



one. By '' tight" we mean a roof that does not admit of water or of driven snow finding their way under them. It has become the custom of late years to lay a prepared paper or felt of some sort on the roof boards or sheeting, before the shingles are laid. This is done for a double purpose and is really a good thing to do. One of the purposes is because the paper assists in keeping the roof tight, making it Warmer in winter and cooler in summer, another is because the paper or felt is said to be made incombustible and therefore, acts as a fire arrested, and when it can possibly be done, it is always in order to put a layer of some sort of unburnable fabric between the shingles and the sheeting. A shingle roof should always be painted with some oxide paint of suitable color, at least two coats. This painting is a good investment, as two coat work, when the shingles are laid will lengthen the life of the roof seventy— five per cent., and if this painting is followed up and the roof painted every five or six years, the life of it may be extended to almost any limit. Of course, something depends on the original quality of the shingles themselves. If they are made of good white pine, straight grained, the roof may be made to last a long time, and so, also, if the shingles are made of sound white cedar, but if cut from shakey or '' dosey

stock, the life of the roof will be short, as they will rot from the underside. The cypress makes the king of shingles, so far as lasting qualities are concerned. There are many old buildings still standing in Southern New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware, that were covered with cypress shingles 150 and 175 years ago, that are still protected from the weather by the shingles that were first laid on, and they have not received a single coat of paint either, or any other composition. The life of an ordinary' Canadian shingle is well within the limits of twenty—five years, if it is not protected by paint or other saving composition, owing, perhaps. to our rigorous climate and heavy rainstorms. An old root; if not too far gone, may be greatly benefited, it given a heavy coat of oxide paint and boiled linseed oil, but, after a roof has seen a half dozen winters or so, unpainted, it is a question whether it is an economy to paint it, as it will eat up an enormous amount of paint and oil to give it justice.



MANY architects insert a clause in their specifications calling for half an inch of rough mortar to be laid tinder the

shingles. The object of this, of course, is to act as a non-conductor of heat and cold, and as a fire arrester. We have never been quite sure that the mortar has ever accomplished either of the purposes for which it was intended. The lime in the mortar certainly docs no good to the shingles, but harm if rain ever gets to where the lime strikes them, and thc shrinkage of the roof boards is sure to crack and break the mortar tip, if it should escape being shattered by the hammering and pounding while the shingling is being done. The mortar used for the purpose is generally the most miserable stuff the plasterer can concoct, and the laying of it on the roof boards is not by any means done in the best style. On a flat roof it may be effective, but on a steep roof we have our doubts about it and in the end we are constrained to think it is about as expensive as good roofing paper.



The stock of the Chanteloup Mfg. Co., Montreal, was damaged by fire a couple of weeks ago to the extent of $15,000.

Mortar under Shingles.

LEGAL DECISIONS.

WHEN RIGHT TO LIEN is Waived.—A mechanic's lien is waived or discharged where the parties enter into a Special agreement inconsistent with the existence of the lien as, for example, by the laborer or material man extending credit to the owner beyond the statutory period for bringing an action to enforce the lien.— Flenniken v. Liscoe (Supreme Ct. Minn..), 66 N. V. W. Rep., 979.

A motion for an injunction Was made at Victoria, B.C., before the Chief Justice in Canessa v. Nicol to restrain the defendant from quarrying stone on plaintiffs property on Gabriola island. Plaintiff and defendant last year made an agreement whereby defendant for the sum of $25 was given the right to prospect on plaintiffs land, and for the sum of $ 300 a year could quarry sand— stone there, with a further proviso that defendant had the option of purchasing the laud a $10 an acre. Defendant decided to purchase, hut plaintiff now alleges that when he signed the agreement he was not aware of the purchase clause in the agreement, and now wishes to eject defendant from the property. An affidavit on behalf of defendant stated that lie is engaged in supplying stone from the quarry under contract for the new post office here. The court ordered that defendant be allowed to continue quarrying on payment into court of $300.





PERSONAL.

Mr. James 'I'. Davis, of the firm of Davis & Sons, canal con— tractors, had one of his shoulders dislocated in a runaway accident recently.

Mr. Andrew Onderdonk, t he millionaire contractor, who has lately resided in New York, will take up his residence at Hamilton, Gin. 110 has leased Highfield," the Turner homestead, which Lord Aberdeen occupied while a resident of that city.

Mr. William McNichol, of St. Catharines, a contractor on the Hamilton Radial Electric Railway, was accidentally killed at I Hamilton on the 23rd of June while crossing the Grand Trunk railway tracks, by being struck by a train. Deceased was fifty years of age, and leaves a wife and two children.





Quarter-sawed boards and bastard-sawed boards neither shrink nor wear alike, hence they should not be used side by side for best floors.

The Ontario Lead and Barb Wire Co., of Toronto, are said to have decided to establish a branch in Hamilton. They have secured the Dalby building on Hughson street for a factory, where they will manufacture plumbers supplies, and barb wire and nails.

While the workmen were engaged in the construction of the Presbyterian church at Palmerston Out., one of the guy ropes slipped from its fastenings and in an instant the whole of the heavy roof timbers crashed to the ground, killing a workman named John Whitely, about 35 years of age. Several others had very narrow escapes.

At the last regular monthly meeting of the Iron Fonnders' Association of Montreal, Mr. J. Best, of' Messrs. Warden King & Son, who was their representative at the meeting of the National Association of Iron Founders, held recently in Philadelphia, and

was elected a Vice—President of that Association, gave a graphic and interesting account of the proceedings The Montreal association will discuss t he subjects at future meetings.



The annual excursion of the Toronto Builders' Exchange was held on Saturday, the 11th inst. The steamer Tyron '' carried over one hundred member of the Exchange and their friends to Wilson Park, N. Y. where an enjoyable days outing spent The program of sports was prepared mainly for the entertainment of the children, by whom they were thoroughly enjoyed The weather was almost perfect and the sail across the lake was exceedingly pleasant. The excursionists returned to Toronto about 9 o'clock.

The bricklayers of Ottawa are endeavoring to arrange an eight hour day with the contractors. At present they are working nine hours per day, for which they receive three dollars. A proposing for a reduction has been before the bricklayers' union for some time and has lately been sent to a number of leading contractors. They ask 35 cents an hour for an average of eight hours a day during the week, arranged in such a way as to give a half holiday on Saturday. The contractors are believed to be adverse to the reduction on the above grounds, but are willing to pay wages at the rate of $3 for nine hours, or 33 1/3 cents per hour.

