	<doctype type="text">92	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Derrick Marks in Stone.

<article title=" Derrick Marks in Stone " author="">









































<article title=" Penalty for blacklisting " author="">Penalty for blacklisting.

interest in the collection of photographs, examples of colour decoration, sculpture and so on, and occasionally adding thereto, some gift, however small, a great deal would soon be accomplished and the public interest would be aroused. Students certainly cannot complain of lack of subjects to sketch in winter or whenever the weather is bad. There are in the present collection casts of well-known statues and groups and we have no doubt that permission might be obtained for students to go there with their sketch books and spend a few profitable hours. Might not the Architectural Association interest itself in this matter and thereby accomplish a very useful work?



WE should like to call attention to what seems to be an oversight on the part of both architects and engineers

as well as contractors. Why should stone cutters or aborers allow the claws of the derrick which is to raise a heavy stone to grip the stone on the face, instead of at the sides ? The marks of the iron claw is visible to—day on the surface of stones in many buildings and will be there for all time. It seems a small matter, perhaps, but it creates an eyesore and could easily be avoided. The worst specimen of the kind is the stonework of the King street subway, where nearly every stone has had a small circular sinking cut on its face, to enable the claw to get a firm grip, and every stone so treated is disfigured for life and the general effect is marred.



FOR refusing to obey the command of the trades unions to discharge two of their employees a firm of contractors

in London, Eng., were recently black-listed. The unions posted up throughout the city upwards of seven hundred copies of a poster, having a black border, headed "Trollope's Black List," and bearing the names of the two obnoxious workmen. The firm appealed to the courts, and were granted a perpetual injunction restraining the unions from issuing any additional copies of the poster, and £500 damages for injuries sustained as the result of the copies which had been printed and circulated. A few decisions of this character would do much to check the tyrannical practices to which the trades unions are prone to resort for the accomplishment of their purposes.



WE wish that it were possible to impress upon students the immense importance of sketching. Too little

attention, by far, is given to this, which ought to be a very important feature in the self education of would-be architects. Nothing impresses a detail on the mind so well as to make a sketch of it, and an intricate detail cannot be thoroughly learned unless it is sketched. To say nothing of the facility in the use of the pencil, the lissomeness given to the fingers, the training of the eye acquired by constant sketching, to be able to draw freehand any subject that chance may present is as important to an architect as fluency of speech to a public speaker. We published last month a measured drawing of an old English castle measuring and drawing from such measurements is the constant practise of students in Europe, to which is added the freehand sketching of the details. This may well serve as an example to our students. A great deal has been said from time to time of the necessity of this kind of thing

Sketching by Students.

for students ; now is the season when they should put it in practise, and surely one who appreciates his profession will find this work a delightful recreation.

<article title=" Sketching by Students " author="">



THE question has been raised as to whether the subject of design should be omitted in examinations of students in

architecture, or whether it would not be advisable to curtail examinations on that point for the reason that design cannot be taught. No man who has not "got it in him " by nature, can have it '' put into him " by any amount of instruction. The subject occupies an important place in the curriculum of architectural school' and this argues that it should not be left out in examinations without serious consideration. It is true no one can design unless he has a natural gift, but like all gifts, unless of the very highest order, the '' heavenborn spark" requires cultivation, and it is only by study that the gift can be developed. If a man is to pose as an " artist in building" there can be no possible objection to his shewing by examination how far he comprehends the "principles" upon which the art is based, and it is upon the " principles " of the art of design that the examination should be set. A man may, if his genius bends in that direction, design for his pleasure or for the benefit of his clients any kind of conglomerate structure, and if he is a true artist—one who has developed his natural instinct by the study of the art in all ages the principles of the art will be found in all his work, and there will be in his designs the sense of proportion and the feeling of repose. The questions set or the work asked for at an examination should not be so much a test of artistic ability as for the purpose of ascertaining whether the candidate knows anything of the principles of his art. The scientific or more practical part of an architect's work is getting more and more intricate every year entailing continual study in new methods of construction, new materials and so on, to enable him to keep abreast of the times. Certain new methods or requirements may and probably of necessity must be in the hands of the specialist, but the architect must before long know all about everything that has to be introduced constructionally into his building or that has to appear on the surface and therefore be a matter of design ; and in this case it is certain that he needs to have the principles" of design at his fingers ends for he will certainly spoil his work unless he can apply these principles to every detail.





GURNEY	FOUNDRY COMPANY'S EXCURSION.

THE fourth annual excursion of the employees of the Gurney Foundry Co., of Toronto, was held on the 27th of June at Lake Erie Park, near Port Colborne. The excursionists, numbering about four hundred, sailed across the lake on the steamer Empress of India to Port Dalhousie, where the train was taken for their destination. At the park an enjoyable afternoon was spent in various games, one of the special features being a baseball match between the Gurney Foundry Company and representatives of the retail stove trade, the latter winning the honors.

Mr. T. B. Alcock represented the company, the president, Mr. Edward Gurney, being unable to be present. Among the architects present were Messrs. Edwards, Brown, Siddall, and Bradley.

The Omission of Design in Examinations.

