<doctype type="text;ad">



Votes of thanks were accorded to the president and secretary, which were suitably acknowledged.

The President then announced the adjournment of the convention.



SOCIAL FEATURES.

<article title=" SOCIAL FEATURES " author="">

At 2 p. m. on the second day the delegates were received by His Worship, Mayor Wilson-Smith, at the city hall. A brief address of welcome was delivered by the Mayor, in which he stated that it was a matter for congratulation that so many business men of practical experience had gathered together to exchange ideas and aid the progress of a science which afforded protection, indirectly, to the commercial prosperity of the country. A visit was also made to the Council chamber, after which the delegates enjoyed a drive round the city by the courtesy of the Montreal members. At p. m. the train was taken for Lachine, where a steamer was taken which carried them down the Lachine rapids.



In the evening the members celebrated the organization of a Dominion Association by a banquet at the Richelieu Hotel. About one hundred persons were present, and the chair was filled by the newly-elected president. The toast of the '' Queen " was duly honored, and the health of '' The Supply Houses " was responded to by Lieut.-Col. Massey, of the Gurney-Massey Co.; Mr. Sullivan, of Warden King & Son ; Mr. McConochy, of Thomas Robertson & Co.; Mr. Glassford, of James Morrison, Toronto, and Mr. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Co. Other toasts were "The Visiting Delegates " '' The Chairman," and '' The Press," to which brief responses were made.

A strong effort is being made by the architects of the state of Washington to have congress make an appropriation to provide for the investigation and testing of American timber, with particular reference to Washington fir. The bill as now proposed, provides for an appropriation of $40,000 for the purpose, of which at least thirty per cent. shall be devoted to the testing of timber of the Pacific coast.



A class in bricklaying has been established in San Francisco, Cal., by a resident bricklayer who has been engaged in business for many years. The class is composed of boys from ten years of age upward, who take a lesson every day after school hours, and also on Saturday. An hour is spent in drawing to scale that which they build during the week. The pupils are the sons of the leading contractors of the city, and instruction is given in laying Roman, common and press brick, as well as how to do all kinds of work pertaining to the trade.



THE Gurney Foundry Company, Limited, of Toronto and Montreal, have recently opened large showrooms at 75 Finsbury Pavement, E.C., where they display a quantity of their hot water boilers and radiators (low pressure). After careful inspection their manufactures seem to be of the highest quality, both in materials and workmanship. This system of heating has given great satisfaction where it has been installed, and we may mention the following buildings in which this system may be seen in use :—The Tivoli Music Hall and Restaurant ; the Union Bank, Princes Street, E. C. the Garrick Theatre ; Sir Charles Tupper's residence Peek, 'Winch & Co., New Buildings, Eastcheap ; London and Midland Bank, Peckharn ; and the New Fish Market, Farringdon Road, E.G.— British Architect.





CREDIT FORKS MININO & MFO. CO.

(FORMERLY CARROLL & VICK.)

	84 Adelaide St. W.	-	TORONTO



Brown	Stone Quarries,  Credit Forks, Out.

Supply the Best.

DIMENSION	COURSING

RANDOM	SHODDY

HEADS, SILLS	RUBBLE

BROWN STONE

IN..

CANADA

GREY LIME of Superior Setting Quality

shipped in car lots to dealers.





Office:	84 Adelaide St. West, TORONTO Telephone 208.









"Since we used Mica

to cover our flues the insurance companies	reduced our rate." That is what the Allan Mfg. Co. writes to us. After a series of tests, the Boiler Inspection and Insurance Co., of Canada, says of it: ''Its non-conducting property, its durability, and its portability, unite in making it the most effective and convenient boiler covering on the market." The Toronto Dredging and Contracting Co. says '' It has effected a saving of coal of about 250 The Toronto Ferry Co. found a saving



of 20; the Aylesbury Dairy Co. of 33



THE MICA BOILER COVERING CO.

9 Jordan St., TORONTO