<doctype type="text">

greater progress and had a larger membership than St. John.

The following were appointed as members of the committee on constitution and by-laws Messrs. J. XV.

Hughes, Montreal ; J. J. Jamieson, Kingston ; W. J.

Burroughes, Toronto ; R. J. Haslett, London ; R.

Sampson, (Quebec ; A. Blondin, St. Hyacinthe ; J.

McKinley, Ottawa; J. Borton, Halifax; J. H. Doody,

St. John, N. B., and R. F. Elliott, Kingston.

After a few words from Mr. R. F. Elliott, mayor of Kingston, the convention adjourned for lunch.

On reassembling, Mr. F. C. Mount was appointed sergeant-at-arms, and Mr. Hughes read the constitution and by-laws which the Legislative Committee had adopted, being those governing the National Association of Master Plumbers of the United States, with such amendments as were necessary to make the same conform to Canada. The by-laws were read clause by clause and adopted. They provided that the organization should be known as the National Association of Master Plumbers of the Dominion of Canada. It was organized for sanitary, commercial and social purposes, and had for its special objects the advancement appertaining to sanitary laws ; to promote and combine the interests of the trade in the latest discoveries in sanitary science ; the protection of the trade against imposition, injustice or encroachment upon their common rights or interests ; encouraging inventions or improvements in sanitary appliances, fostering an interchange of thought, and eliciting and communicating for the benefit of each member the best talent and result of the experience and ability of all to promote amicable relations with employees, on the basis of mutual interest and equitable justice to both journeymen and master plumbers; to encourage Dominion and Provincial legislation for the furtherance of the interest of sanitary laws ; to secure for the members of the trade equitable treatment in their dealings with manufacturers and dealers in supplies ; to regulate the system of apprenticeship and employment, so as to prevent, as far as practicable, the evils growing out of deficient training in the responsible duties of selecting, arranging, and fitting up materials relating to the hydraulic and sanitary condition of dwellings, public and private institutions ; to create and maintain a sanitary code at as high a standard as the progress of science (chemical, philosophical and mechanical knowledge) teaches.



ELECTION OF OFFICERS.

<article title=" ELECTION OF OFFICERS " author="">

Messrs. R. F. Elliott, Kingston, Alph. Champagne, Montreal, and W. Smith, London, were appointed a Nomination Committee, and reported in favor of the appointment of the following officers President, Mr. Joseph Lamarche, Montreal ; vice-president Mr. W.

J. Burroughes, Toronto ; vice-presidents from each province represented, Messrs. William Smith, Ontario, 0. Matte, Quebec, J. I-I. Doody, New Brunswick, and John Borton, Nova Scotia ; financial and recording secretary, Mr. J. W. Hughes, Montreal ; treasurer, Mr. Fiddes, Toronto; executive committee, to act in conjunction with the officers of the association, Ontario, R. F.

Elliott, Quebec, E. C. Mount, New Brunswick, Thos. Campbell, Nova Scotia, Geo. A. Perior.

The report was unanimously adopted, after which the newly-elected officers returned thanks for the honor conferred upon them. Adjournment was then announced until 8 p. m. when the members met in secret session, at

which the question of a protective policy was considered and the matter left in the hands of the executive committee.



SECOND DAY.



At 10 o'clock of the following day the convention resumed.

In the absence of Mr. E. C. Mount, who was on the previous day appointed sergeant-at-arms, Mr. 0. Matte, of Quebec, was appointed to act in his stead during the morning session.

At the request of the President, the delegates from the several associations reported the number of active members on the rolls as follows :—Halifax, 27 ; Montreal. 75 St. John, N. B., 12 ; Toronto, 35 ; London, Ont., 15 ; Ottawa, 9 ; Quebec, 37 ; Kingston, 7

Hamilton, 12 ; St. Catharines, 2 ; Toronto Junction, Peterboro, ; Galt, 2. St. Hyacinthe has no association, but a representative was present. The United States Association was stated to have a membership of 6,ooo.



The President reported that it had been decided to compose the Legislative Committee as under: Messrs.

J.	McKinley, Ottawa, chairman ; F. (1. Johnson, Ottawa A. Blondin, St. Hyacinthe ; R. Sampson, Quebec; James Farquhar, Halifax.



The President announced that at 2 o'clock an official reception would be given by the mayor at the city hall, after which they would enjoy a drive through the city.



NEXT PLACE OF MEETING.

<article title=" NEXT PLACE OF MEETING " author="">

The selection of' the place of meeting for the next convention was then taken up. Motions were offered in favor of Toronto, Kingston and Quebec. A vote was taken, with the result that Toronto was chosen as the meeting place for the second convention, the date to he fixed by the Executive Committee.

Mr. Hughes moved a vote of thanks to the National Association of Master Plumbers of the United States, which was acknowledged by Messrs. Davlin, Tute and Riley.

Mr. Elliott moved that the thanks be hereby tendered to the press for favors received, especially to Hardware

and Metal, THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and last, but not the least, to the Plumbers Trade Journal, and the able representatives sent here to assist us.

The President then called upon Lieut. -Col. Massey, of the Gurney-Massey Co., Montreal, to address the meeting.

Mr. Massey I need scarcely assure you all that I did not expect you to call on me to say address you this morning. I should, however, fall very far short of my duty if I did not at once accede to your request. As a Montrealer in business here I can only assure those gentlemen from a distance who have come to assist you in forming a plumbers' association in the Dominion of Canada, that we are exceedingly glad to have you come to our city. I think the object of your association is very commendable. The duties of the Montreal association have been very carefully carried out heretofore. I have always loved to learn, and find that in going from place to place we can always derive a great benefit. I trust you may all have a very pleasant stay in Montreal.

Mr. Elliott moved, seconded by Mr. Burroughes, that the master plumbers of the Dominion desire to tender their sincere thanks to the Montreal Master Plumbers' Association for the hearty manner in which they have been received.

The motion was carried amid applause.

