<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	93



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL EXHIBITION " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL EXHIBITION.



It has been definitely resolved to hold an architectural and arts and crafts exhibition in connection with the annual meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

The principal committees are organized as follows

General committee—A. C. Hutchison, A. T. Taylor, Jos. Venne, Jas. Nelson, E. Maxwell, J. Z. Resther, F. H. Berlinguet, R. Findlay, A. F. Dunlop, A. Raza, Chas. Baillarge, W. F:. Doran, J. F. Peachy.

Reception of Drawings Committee—E. Maxwell, R. Findlay, Jos. Venne.

Arts and Crafts Committee—Jas. Nelson, J. Z. Resther, A. C. Hutchison.

Loan Exhibit Committee—A. T. Taylor, W. MeLennan, R. Findlay.

Printing, Advertisements and	Committee. A. Raza, J. XV. Hopkins, Jos. Perrault, G. XV. Wood, R. Findlay Jos. Venne.

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

At a special meeting of the above Association nearly all the members were Resolutions of condolence were passed at



the death of Mr. J. B. Resther. On motion by Mr. V. Roy, seconded by Mr. W. Hopkins, it was resolved:

That the members of this Association have learned with deep regret of the loss they have sustained in the death of the late Mr.

J.	13. Resther, one of its most devoted members and founders.

That the Association presents to his bereaved family its most sincere sympathies, and that a copy of this resolution be presented to the family and to the newspapers, and that communication of same he given to the members of this Association throughout the Province of Quebec.



THE NOTRE DAME STREET BRIDGE.

<article title=" THE NOTRE DAME STREET BRIDGE " author="">

The conflict between the city and the C. P. R. regarding the construction of the bridge on Notre Dame street, at the east end station, is far from being settled, the superior court having not yet rendered judgment. It will be remembered that the C. P. R. Company were to have charge of the excavation work, but owing to the different manner of interpreting the contract between the two parties, the City Council resolved to do the work, estimated

to cost $35,000, awaiting the decision of the superior court as to the meaning of the terms of tile contract. The city solicitor has been consulted on the subject, but refuses to make known his opinion before the court judgment.



<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL TERMS EXPLAINED " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL TERMS EXPLAINED.

A RECENT issue of the Brickbuilder contains the following explanation of the various phrases used by architects and not generally used by the mechanic, which may prove beneficial to many. '[he front, or facade, made after the ancient models, or any portion of it, may represent three parts, occupying different heights the pedestal is the lower part, usually supporting a column, and its place supplied by a stylobate ; the stylobate is either a platform with steps or a continuous pedestal supporting a row of' columns. The lower part

of a finished pedestal is Called a plinth, the middle part is the die, the tipper part the Cornice of the pedestal or surbase. The column is the middle part, situated upon the pedestal or stylobate. It is generally detached from the wall, but is sometimes buried in it for half its diameter, and is then said to be engaged. Pilasters are square or flat columns attached to walls. The lower part of the column when detached is called the base the middle or longest part is the shaft, and the upper or ornamental part is the Capital. The swell of the column is called the entasis. The height of columns is measured in diameters of the Column itself, taken always at the base. '[he entablature is the horizontal continuous portion which rests upon the top of a row of columns. '[he lower part of the entablature is called the architrave, the middle is the frieze, while the upper or projecting part is the cornice. The pediment is the triangular face produced by the extremity of the roof. The middle or flat portion enclosed by the cornice of the pediment is called the tympanum. Pedestals for statues erected on the summit and extremities of the pediment are called acrosteria. An attic is an tipper part of a building, terminated at the top by a horizontal line, instead of a pediment.

The different moldings in architecture are described from their sections or from the profile which they present when cut across. Of these the torus is a convex, but its outline is only a quarter of a circle ; the scotia is a deep concave molding; the caveuo is also a concave and occupying but quarter of a circle; the cymatium is an undulating molding, of which the upper part is concave and the lower convex ; the ogee, or talon, is an inverted cymatium ; the fillet is a small square or flat molding. In architectural measurement a diameter means the width of a column at its base. A module is half a diameter, and a minute is a sixtieth part of a diameter.



'[he effect of sunshine was gained in a living room that only had a north light by having the woodwork painted with white enamel, the upper part of the windows set with panes of pale yellow glass and the windows themselves beneath the glass hung with curtains of pale yellow silk.

When will builders understand that brickwork may very well be painted to great advantage? In some districts the bricks, though hard and durable, are of a poor colour, an insipid variety of salmon being perhaps the most objectionable. Two or three good coats of paint finished flat would greatly improve the appearance of building erected in such bricks, and the mortar joints may be painted in white or black.



The following is extracted from specifications for the preparation and the of cement mortar for the Sanitary District of Chicago, natural cement being used - '' (a) Measure sand proportion in dry mixing box. (b) Measurement on top of sand. (c) Overcast twice with shovel, or more often if necessary. (d) Cast dry mixture of cement and sand through No. sieve or screen. (e) Be sure incorporation is fully accomplished before adding any water. (f) Add water at part of wet mixing box remote from screen. (g) Add water slowly and gradually to prevent washing. (h) Hoe dry mixture slowly into water, avoiding any stirring further than to uniformly wet the mixture. (i) Conform mortar mixing to progress of the work so no mortar goes into the wall after having been wet 15 minutes."

