<doctype type="text;ad">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

POST OFFICE,	customs and INLAND REVENUE OFFICES,



VICTORIA, B. C. THOS. FULLER, OTTAWA, Architect.



This building is being constructed on a plot of land bounded by Government, Courtney, Wharf and Humboldt streets. The outside walls are to be built of grey cretaceous sandstone from Gabriola Island, on a basement of granite, the partitions of the basement and ground floor to be brick, and the remaining partition, as well as the floors and roof, of wood, the roof covering to be of copper. There is to be a main portion, 136 ft. by 75 ft., having three full storeys, a basement and a mansard, and also an L-shaped annex of one storey and basement, having frontages of 107 feet and 103 feet on Courtney and Wharf streets respectively.

The main building is to be apportioned as follows

The basement to the heating apparatus, fuel, stores, water closets, etc.; the ground floor to the local post office ; the first floor to the customs and finance ; the second floor to the Inland Revenue and post office inspector's office, and the finished portion of the attic to the caretaker for a residence.

The annex will consist of a portion 75 feet by 26 feet, devoted to stores, a portion 109 ft. by 38 ft. for a bonded warehouse, and, in rear of the warehouse, a one-storey drive-way 30 ft. by 29 ft. The drive-way is 13 ft. wide, paved with granite, and leads from Humboldt street to the yard. Seven fire proof vaults are to be provided for the use of the several departments occupying the building. The building will be heated throughout by hot water direct heating.

Plans, specifications, and details for all the works, including fittings, heating, etc., were prepared by the

Chief Architect of the Department of Public Works, Mr. Thos. Fuller, and the work is being carried out under the supervision of F. C. Gamble, departmental resident engineer at Victoria, B. C. The contractors for the construction of the building are Messrs. Elford Smith, Victoria, B. C., the fittings and heating not yet being contracted for.

<article title=" CEMENT SIDEWALKS " author="">

CEMENT SIDEWALKS.

REPY1NG to a correspondent has had difficulty in making a cement sidewalk retain a smooth surface, a writer in Paving and Municipal Engineering says

While the top mixture should be thoroughly rammed or beaten and well troweled, yet this treatment should not be continued so long as to bring to the surf ace a considerable quantity of neat cement, thus leaving the layer of mortar next below without sufficient cement to bind it together. If this is done, the thin layer of neat cement may flake off when set, revealing a layer of almost clear sand below. A similar result obtains if one attempts to retrowel a surface once finished and partially set but afterward defaced. Sprinkling the walk before the cement has thoroughly set may cause blisters which mar the appearance of the work on the other hand, the walk should be protected from the direct rays of the hot sun, or surface cracks may result."



The following rules for the use of cement in freezing weather will be found useful As little water should be used as will permit a thorough incorporation of the materials. The water sand, and stone may well be heated to about 100 degs. F., and in any case should be above 32 degs. F. Salt may be used in small quantities to delay freezing until the work is in place, or in larger quantities to prevent freezing until the cement has set and hardened sufficiently to resist the destructive tendency of the freezing weather.—Municipal Engineering.





BOOTH'S PATENT

Here's

·. a . . 'Pointer"









 Agencies and Warerooms are maintained at points named in



 Prices and Samples of our

Goods Submitted on Application







Head Office and Factory





THE TORONTO STEEL-CLAD

BATH & METAL CO., Ltd.

125 and 127 Queen St. F.

TORONTO