	<doctype type="text">106	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



MASTER PLUMBERS.



ORGANIZATION OF A DOMINION ASSOCIATION.

<article title=" ORGANIZATION OF A DOMINION ASSOCIATION " author="Lamarche, J.">



At the solicitation of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, there convened in that city on the 2fld of Jul delegates from the different master plumbers' associations of the Dominion. The very desirable object for which the gathering was called together was the formation of a National Plumbers' Association for the Dominion, which would grapple with the many ques— MR. JOS. LAMARCHE, President, Montreal.





tions of paramount importance to the trade, such as sanitary laws plumbing licenses and examinations, etc. Letters were sent to each association requesting that a delegate be sent to represent their district, and the hearty response to the invitation indicated that the movement had met with approval.

There were present delegates from a number of the principal cities of the Dominion, as well as representatives from the National Association of the United States.

The representatives were as follows

Toronto W. J. Burroughes A. Fiddes, F. W. Armstrong.

Montreal- Joseph Lamarche, E. C. Mount, Alph. Champagne, J. W. Hughes P. j. Carroll.

Kingston-- J. J. Jameson, Robert Elliott.

London- R. J. Haslett Wm. Smith.

Quebec R. Sampson, 0. Matte.

Ste. Hyaeinthe A. Blondin.

Ottawa John McKinley.

Halifax— George Perrior, John Borton.

St. John, N. B. J. H. Doody

The delegates from the National Association of the United States were Messrs. J. F. Davlin T. J. Tute and Isaac Riley.

In addition to the delegates there were present the following members of the Montreal association and representatives of supply houses

S. Martin, Thos. Mott, John Foster, Wm. M. Briggs C. A. Champagne, J. A. Marier, Jos. King, M. Germain, John Burns, Alf. Derners, John Watson, Lt. S. Stephenson, Fred. Horton, Geo. Henders, E. Lesperance J. C. Jacotel, H. Baillie, JAs. Ballantyne, P. C. Ogilvie, Griffin Rosser, F. H. Barr, 6. A. Berrier and AIf. Blais.

The chair was then taken by Mr. Joseph Lamarche, president of the local association, who addressed the delegates as follows

GENTLEMEN :-—-In the name of the Master Plumbers Association of Montreal, as Chairman, let me thank you most cordially for having accepted our invitation. I may state that we do not want to take all the honor upon ourselves of having convened this

convention 



It is a long time since we desired to see the master plumbers united in one body, and we are very glad, therefore, that you come in such representative numbers from different parts of the Dominion. Let me thank especially those representatives who are here to represent the United States. It deserves special

mention. They have had experience and are willing to show us the way to success, and let its benefit by their experience which

they have derived from fourteen or fifteen years work. I really

thank them most sincerely and welcome them to the City of

Montreal.

There is another matter worthy of mention namely, the Master Plumbers Journal, which is especially devoted to plumbing, etc. They have sent from New York Mr. Spires one of the staff, to represent their paper, and I thank them very much for the honor done us on this occasion.

There is no need of talking to you about the necessity of organization. We all know the good results to be obtained from it. The master plumbers of Montreal started an Association as you know, some years ago, and did a great deal of work, but it did not turn out a success. A couple of years ago we united again, and we have done our best in Montreal to promote the success of

organization, and I think the members of our Association deserve credit for having encouraged other places to help us in having this great convention to—day. At that \ time I believe there was only Toronto which had an organization. I do not think there w as any organization in any other place in Canada, and to day we have representatives from ocean to ocean, from Toronto, Kingston, Ottawa, Montreal, St. Hyacinihe, Quebec St. John, N. 13., and Halifax , N.S. So gentlemen it says a good deal for the necessity of an organization

It will not be out of place to mention a few reasons why we

really need organization Many people believe that we organize for the purpose of making dollars and Cents. They must put away such an idea and we must make them understand we organize not for thc reason they suppose, but in the interest of public health. There are many plumbers who do not know how to do their work, who do not understand the duties which appertain to their situation, or else they do not care to give themselves the trouble of executing them properly. I may say of Montreal, that a by—law was passed some time ago, prohibiting the use of tile pipe inside of buildings, but it was not enforced, and though the by—law was still in existence, bad work way







































Mr. W J. BURROUGHES, Vice-President, Toronto.



allowed to he done. I therefore cannot be for dollars and cents that the master plumbers organized, since they can make more money by repairing tile pipes than by putting in iron ones. We organized, as I said before, in the interest of the public health.

Another reason is that a great many men go into this kind of work and know practically nothing about it, because they have served but a short apprenticeship it is therefore the duty of this organization not only to look to the sanitary condition, but to sec that proper workmen are turned out and fitted to do the work in the future. A third reason is that manufacturers and suppliers of all kinds are organizing to protect their own interests, and why should not we? We should not only organize in one particular city, but all through the country, all over the

