<doctype type="text">

THE LATE MR. WILLIAM HASKINS, C. E.

A long and useful life was terminated on the 5th inst., on which date occurred the death of Mr. William Haskins, C. E., the well-known City Engineer and manager of the Waterworks Department of the city of Hamilton. Early in the morning he was afflicted with a stroke of apoplexy, from the effects of which he never regained consciousness, expiring at 5:30 o'clock in the afternoon.

Deceased had been attending to his duties as usual up to the previous Saturday, although for the past two years he had not enjoyed the best of health, and last spring visited a health resort in search of restitution. This he regained in a slight degree only. Of late the affairs of the department over which he had charge have been unusually onerous, necessitating his closest attention.

By his death the city of Hamilton loses an efficient and valuable officer, and one who during his many years

<article title=" THE LATE MR. WILLIAM HASKINS, C. E." author="">







































THE LATE MR. WM. HASKINS, C. E.





of service exercised his executive ability in an eminently successful manner.

Mr. Haskins was born at Coolkem Hall, County of Wicklow, Ireland, on May 29, 1828, being therefore in his 69th year. He was a son of Abraham Haskins, who came from England and settled in the county of Wick-low. His mother was Margaret Fitzmaurice, daughter of Colonel Fitzrnaurice, her father and three brothers being either military or naval officers. He was educated in Dublin, Ireland, where he studied his profession of civil engineer at Trinity College, under Sir John McNeill.

In 1852 deceased came to Canada and obtained a position as assistant engineer on the survey and construction of the Great Western Railway, and afterwards, in 1856, was appointed City Engineer of Hamilton, which position he filled until his death.

In 1861 when the city took over the waterworks from the Board of Commissioners, the duties of manager were entrusted to him. He was not only manager of the engineering, construction and operation of the waterworks system, but financial manager as well, having full charge of the collection and remitting of rates, etc. About 10 years ago these duties were transferred to the tax collector, but Mr. Haskins continued to be city engineer and manager of the waterworks. He was a man of large experience and knowledge, and a thoroughly efficient engineer and public officer. Perhaps his greatest work for the city was the management of the Waterworks Department, which he brought to a high state of efficiency, and with every detail of which he was conversant. Quite recently he prepared a number of plans, minutely describing the whole system, in order that at his death the system might be preserved. His ability was recognized outside of Hamilton by the frequency with which he was called on to advise other corporations contemplating important improvements.

He was a member of the Royal Society of Engineers of England, an Ontario Land Surveyor, and a member of the Society of Civil Engineers of Canada. He was also a member of the Masonic fraternity. In religion he was a member of the Church of England, and in politics a Conservative.

In 1852 Mr. Haskins married Catherine Murray, daughter of Mr. Hugh Murray, of the county of Carlow, Ireland, a gentleman of Scottish ancestry. He leaves a widow and five sons, Messrs. William Fitzrnaurice, of Dunnville ; Frederick H., of Toronto ; Raymond and Gerald, of Hamilton, and Thomas Fitzmaurice, of Dunnville.

His funeral was attended by the mayor and aldermen of the city and the civic employees in a body, and by a very large number of private citizens.



<article title=" HEATING AND VENTILATING BUILDINGS." author="">

HEATING AND VENTILATING BUILDINGS.

IN a work on heating and ventilating buildings, Prof. Carpenter says the most effective location for the air inlet is probably in or near the ceiling of a room, although authorities differ much in this respect. The advantages of introducing warm air at or near the top of the room are first, the warmer air tends to rise and hence spreads uniformly under the ceiling; second, it gradually displaces other air, and the room becomes filled with pure air without sensible currents or draughts; third, the cooler air sinks to the bottom and can be taken off by a ventilating shaft. So far as the system introduces air at the top of the room it is a forced distribution and produces better results than other methods. When the inlet is placed in the floor or near the bottom part of the walls it is a receptacle for dust from the room and a lodging and breeding place for microbe organisms. In the ventilation of large buildings the inlets can usually be located in the ceiling, especially if the lighting be done by electricity or in some manner not affected by air currents. The outlet for air should be as near the bottom of a room as possible, and it should be connected with a flue of ample size, maintained at a temperature higher than that of the surrounding air, unless forced circulation is in use, in which case the excess of pressure in a room will produce the required circulation. These conditions should lead us to locate vent-flues on the inside walls of a house or a building, and where they will be kept as warm as possible by the surrounding bodies. If for any reason the temperature in the flue becomes lower than that of the surrounding air, the current will move in a reverse direction and the ventilation system will be obstructed. The conditions as to the size of the outlet register are the same as those for the inlet ; the register should be of ample size, the opening should be gradually contracted into the flue, and every precaution should be taken to prevent friction losses.

