<doctype type="text">

Dominion, so that if necessary we can act in a body and maintain our rights.

As far as trade relations are concerned we have no other wish, but to live and let live. It is the only wish we have here, and I am certain there is no one who will refuse us the advantage of living as well as themselves.

Gentlemen let me thank you once more for having come here in such numbers, and let me express to you my heartiest feelings on the part of the Montreal Master Plumbers to have the honor of receiving you here for the first convention of the Dominion Master Plumbers of Canada.

Mr. Larnarche then made a short speech in French to those who did not understand English.







































MR. J. W. HUGHES, Secretary, Montreal.





Mr. T. J. Tute, of Boston, was called upon to address the meeting. He said I second Mr. Lanarche in saving that we have labored for fifteen years and have still work before us, not as a matter of making dollars and cents, but to protect the public. In building a school it is not so much the brick, the woodwork, and the painting that should be closely attended to, as the sanitary work. Where your children, my children, and children of the world are to meet it is most necessary that they have pure air to breathe, live and work in. When you go On board a steamer the first thing almost that one notices is a card hanging upon the wall indicating the qualifications of the engineer. It is just as important for our trade to have this same qualification. The world may call us the thieving, robbing plumbers but, gentlemen, thieves and robbers grow rich, but you can find very few rich plumbers. We want to protect our own interests and to keep out impurity, and let innocence be uppermost, where God-like people may dwell in safety. And how are we to do it? It is by clasping hands with one another, with honorable, upright men throughout the world, to try and protect humanity from the cradle to the grave. We most heartily extend that protection to you to its utmost limit, and will always be pleased to do what we can to help you. We are all brothers of one family. You have my best and hearty sympathy and support.

Mr. F. J. Davlin, of Boston, followed, stating that it gave him much pleasure to extend to Canadian master plumbers the fraternal greetings of the master plumbers of the United States, and assure them of their hearty support at all times. Do not be backward, he said, in calling for aid, assistance or information that our association has in its power to give you.

Mr. I. Riley, another delegate from the United States association, was then called upon, and expressed his

pleasure at being present, and at seeing such a large number present.

The President stated that he had only taken the chair pro tem, but he was requested to continue in office, and Mr. J. W. Hughes, of Montreal, was appointed temporary secretary.

Messrs. R. F. Elliott, Kingston F. XV. Armstrong, Toronto, and 0. Matte, Quebec, were then appointed a committee on credentials.

Mr. Burroughes, President of the Toronto Association, was asked to address the delegates. lie related sonic interesting circumstances in connection with the plumbing business in Toronto, referring particularly to the strike of journeymen plumbers over the apprenticeship question in the year 1888 and which was finally won by the master plumbers, as the result of having an association, which had only been formed a year previous. With regard to association matters, he stated that he had always taken a great interest in them and done his best to further the interests of associations and to organize in adjacent cities. About a year ago lie wrote

the Montreal association about forming a national society, and it was decided that the Montreal association

should look after the eastern provinces, and that Toronto would look after the west. Letters were sent to nearly every city in the Dominion, and in every instance a satisfactory reply was received. These steps had ultimately resulted in the meeting at which they were present. At London and Hamilton they had succeeded this year in forming associations. Adjoining these two cities were a number of towns, the plumbers of which would affiliate with the associations of London and Hamilton.

Mr. Borton, president of the Halifax association, said that its regards their association, it had only been organized about a year ago. At that time they saw that something must be done, as the jobbers down there







































MR. A. FIDDES, Treasurer, Toronto.





were making a slaughter house of Halifax. A meeting was called, and after a little hard work the association was formed. There were three plumbers, he said, who did not belong to the association in Halifax, and who at the present time cannot get their goods in Canada, but they were getting them from the United States. This was causing the association some trouble.

Mr. Moody, of St. John, N. B., said that St. John was the first to move in the direction of forming an association in the maritime provinces, and Halifax followed. The latter branch, he admitted, had made

