<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	119

<article title=" CHARACTERISTICS AND PROPERTIES OF WOOD " author="">

CHARACTERISTICS AND PROPERTIES OF WOOD.

FROM a comprehensive discussion of the characteristics and properties of wood, prepared by Mr. B. E. Fernow, Chief of the Division of Forestry of the United States, the following valuable information for architects and engineers is obtained

WEIGHT OF WOOD.



The two main factors of weight in wood are The amount of cell wall or wood substance, constant for any given piece, and the amount of water contained in the wood, variable even in the standing tree, and only in part eliminated in drying.

In general, it may be said that none of the native woods in common use in this country are, when dry, as heavy as water, i. e., 62 pounds to the cubic foot. Few exceed 50 pounds, while most of them fall below 40 pounds, and much of the pine and other coniferous wood weighs less than 30 pounds per cubic foot.

The weight of the wood is, in itself, an important quality. Weight assists in distinguishing maple from



WEIGHT OF KILN-DRIED WOOD OF. DIFFERENT SPECIES

	Approximate.



Weight of

	Specific

	weight.	cubic	1,000 feet

		foot,	of lumber.

	(a)	Very heavy woods:

		Hickory, oak, persimmon, osage orange, black locust, hackberry,			Pounds.	Pounds.

		  blue beech, best of elm, and ash                              0		70.0.80	  42-48	3,700

	(b)	Heavy woods:

		Ash, elm, cherry, birch, maple, beech, walnut, sour gum, coffee tree,

		  honey locust, best of Southern pine, and tamarack	6o-	.70	  3'-42	3,200

	(c)	Woods of medium weight:

		Southern pine, pitch pine, tamarack, Douglas spruce, western hem-

		  lock, sweet gum, soft maple, sycamore, sassafras, mulberry, light

		  grades of birch and cherry	50-	6o	  30.36	2,700

	(d)	Tight woods:

		Norway and bull pine, red cedar, cypress. hemlock, the heavier spruce

		  and fir, redwood, basswood, chestnut, butternut, tulip, catalpa,

		  buckeye, heavier grades of poplar		40-.50	  24-30	2,200

	(e)	very light woods:

		White pine, spruce, fir, white cedar, poplar	30-	.40	  18-24	1800









poplar. Lightness, coupled with great strength and stiffness, recommends wood for a thousand different uses. To a large extent weight predicates the strength of the wood, at least in the same species, so that a heavy piece of oak will exceed in strength a light piece of the same species, and in pine it appears probable that, weight for weight, the strength of the wood of various pines is nearly equal.

Since ordinary lumber contains knots and also more water than is here assumed, and also since its dimensions either exceed or fall short of perfect measurement, the figures in the table are only approximate.

Thus, 1,000 feet, B. M., of longleaf pine weighs

		Pounds.

	Rough and green	4,500

	Boards, rough but seasoned	3,500

	Boards, dressed and seasoned	3,000

	Flooring, matched, dressed and seasoned	2,500

	Weather boarding beveled and dressed                





The rapidity with which water is evaporated, that is, the rate of drying, depends on the size and shape of the piece and on the structure of the wood. An inch board dries more than four times as fast as a 4-inch plank and more than twenty times as fast as a 10-inch timber. White pine dries faster than oak. A very moist piece of pine or oak will, during one hour, lose more than four times as much water per square inch from the cross section, but only one-half as much from the tangential, as from the radial section.

In a long timber, where the end or cross sections form but a small part of the drying surface, this difference is not so evident. Nevertheless, the ends dry and

shrink first, and being opposed in this shrinking by the more moist adjoining parts, they check, the cracks largely disappearing as seasoning progresses.

In thin boards all parts soon attain the same degree of dryness in heavy timbers the interior remains moister for many months, and even years, than the exterior parts. Finally an equilibrium is reached, and then only the outer parts change with the weather.

With kiln-dried wood all parts are equally dry, and when exposed the moisture coming from the air must pass in through the outer parts, and thus the order is reversed. Ordinary timber requires months before it is at its best; kiln-dried timber, if properly handled, is prime at once.

Steaming- the lumber is commonly resorted to in order to prevent checking and ''case-hardening," but not, as has frequently been asserted, to enable the board to dry. Yard-dried lumber is not dry, and its moisture is too unevenly distributed to insure good behavior after manufacture. Careful piling of the lumber, both in the yard and kiln, is essential to good drying. Piling

boards on edge or standing them on _____________ end is believed to hasten drying. This

______ is true only because in either case the ________ _____ air can circulate more freely around

them than when they are piled in the ordinary way. Boards on end dry unequally ; the upper half dries much Lister than the lower half, and horizontal piling is, therefore, preferable.



SHRINKAGE OF WOOD.



Shrinkage of wood is due to the fact that the cell walls grow thinner on drying. The thicker cell walls and therefore the heavier wood shrinks most, while the water in the cell

cavities does not influence the volume of the wood. Owing to the great difference of cells in shape, size, and thickness of walls and still more in their arrangement, shrinkage is not uniform in any kind of wood. This irregularity produces strains, which grow with the difference between adjoining cells and are greatest at the pith rays. These strains cause warping and checking, but exist even where no outward signs are visible; they are greater if the wood is dried rapidly than if dried slowly, but can never be entirely avoided.

Temporary checks are caused by the more rapid drying of the outer parts of any stick ; permanent checks are due to the greater shrinkage, tangentially, along the rings than that along the radius. This too is the cause of most of the ordinary phenomena of shrinkage, such as the difference in behavior of entire and quartered logs, ''bastard " (tangent) and '' rift " (radial) boards, etc., and explains many of the phenomena erroneously attributed to the influence of bark, or of the greater shrinkage of outer and inner parts of any log.

Rapidly dried in the kiln, the wood of oak and other hard woods ''case-harden," that is, the outer part dries and shrinks before the interior has a chance to do the same, and thus forms a firm shell or case of shrunken, commonly checked wood around the interior. This shell does not prevent the interior from drying, but when this drying occurs, the interior is commonly checked along the medullary rays, as shown in fig. i. In practice this occurrence can be prevented by steaming the  lumber in the kiln and still better by drying the wood 

