<doctype type="text">

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



ARTS AND CRAFTS EXHIBITION BY THE P. Q. A. A.

<article title=" ARTS AND CRAFTS EXHIBITION BY THE P. Q. A. A." author="">

As briefly announced in the Architect AND BUILDER for July, the Province of Quebec Association of Architects will hold an Architectural and Arts and Crafts Exhibition in the Galleries of the Art Association, Phillips Square, commencing on Thursday, 8th October, 1896. This exhibition will consist of: (a) Architectural Drawings (b) A Loan Collection of Antiques (c) Modern Industrial Art in its Application to Architecture.

The Art Association of Montreal have kindly granted the use of their fine galleries for the purpose, and are co-operating with the Architects' Association in promoting the Exhibition.

Committees composed of members of the Association of Architects and Art Association have been appointed to select and arrange the exhibits. These Committees will have power to reject any work which in their opinion does not possess sufficient merit to entitle it to a place in the Exhibition.

The Architectural Section to consist of Pen and Ink and Color Perspectives, Drawings of Original Designs, of Sketches in Ink or Color of Old Work all Drawings must be suitably framed.

The Industrial Art Section to consist of Stone and Wood Carvings and Sculpture, Original Architectural Models, Artistic Iron and Metal Work, Ornamental and Figure Glass Work and Original Cartoons for same, Original Designs for Wall Paper, Artistic Book Binding, Colored Designs for Interior Decoration, Figure Mosaics in Glass, Marble or Tile, Architectural Ceramic Work, Textile Fabrics applicable to Interior Decorations, &c., &c.

As the space in the galleries is limited, articles for exhibition in the Industrial Section must be of reasonable size, and the Committee will exercise their discretion as to the size of articles that can be accepted.

Antiques loaned for exhibition will be sent for and returned to the owners, and will if required be insured on such terms as may be agreed upon.

Drawings and works other than Antiques are to be addressed to the Art Association, Phillips Square, and delivered there not later than the 24th September, and are to be removed immediately after the close of the exhibition, the delivery and removal to be at the risk and expense of the exhibitor.

Every care will be taken of the works while on exhibition, but no liability will be assumed for insurance, damage or loss from any cause whatever.

In connection with my reference last month to the forthcoming Loan Exhibit tinder the direction of the P. Q. A. A., by a misprint the name "R. Findlay" appeared for that of Mr. R. Lindsay, of the Art Association, in the list of members of the Committee.

A DES1GN COMMITTEE.



The Committee of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects to consider designs submitted on different occasions is composed of the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Secretary.



For this year the Committee is as follows: A. C. Hutchison

President ; A. T. Taylor, 1st Vice-President; 1. F. Peachy, 2nd

Vice-President Jos. Venne, Secretary.

STREETS OF MONTREAL.

<article title=" STREETS OF MONTREAL " author="">

The question of repairing the pavements on several of the streets is under consideration by the city fathers. Although it has been stated that the civic authorities intend to have the contractors make the repairs according to their agreement, nothing has yet been done. But it appears in many cases that the contractors guarantee has expired, and the city Will, in consequence, do the repairs at their own expense.

BY THE WAY.

THE payment by the city of Toronto of $15,000 to Mr. Mansergh, the English engineer, for a report on the best means of obtaining a sufficient and satisfactory water supply, was the subject of considerable comment a few months ago. It may interest our readers to learn that as engineer for the new water-works system of Manchester, England, Mr. Mansergh has received in commissions F102,000 or upwards of half a million dollars.



IN conversation with an architect the other day, I happened to touch on the subject of holidays, and was informed that Toronto Island was the farthest remove from the duties of his office that he had any expectation of reaching. Said he, "Did you ever think how peculiarly situated many architects are with regard to a vacation. If we are so fortunate as to have work on hand, we are obliged to stay at home and give it our attention, while if we haven't the work, we can't afford to take a holiday"



SOME enterprising plumber's apprentice has prompted the reporter of the Toronto World to suggest that master plumbers who wish to secure the largest share of the repair business should furnish their journeyman and helper with a tandem bicycle, thus effecting a saving of time in going to and from work, and a proportionate saving to the customer. There's nothing in it, either for the master plumber or his customer, but a great deal for the journeyman and apprentice, who, instead of being obliged to spend a few monotonous hours in the park, would have the opportunity of exploring the beauties of the various pleasure resorts adjacent to the city.

xxx x

DURING the four or five years of business depression through which we have been passing, all classes have been on the lookout for indications of returning prosperity. As a rule they have seen little of an encouraging character, while with some things have been going from bad to worse. I met a man thus situated recently, to whom I propounded the oft-put question: "What is the business outlook?" The answer I received is worthy of preservation. Said he, ''Two or three years ago you and I were living on our Faith that the times would improve. Last year we thought we could discern signs of promise and we lived on hope. This year I am living on Charity."



CHIPS.

George Nelson, contractor, Rossland, B. C., was recently burned out.

The corner stone of the new Knox church at Woodstock, Ont., was laid a fortnight ago. The cost will be upwards of $45,000.

The Privy Council of England has confirmed the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada awarding Emanuel St. Louis, contractor, a balance of $63,642 on the Curran bridge, which the government had refused to pay.

The Pacific Coast Cement Company has been incorporated by J. C. Ferguson, C. W. Robson, H. J. Warsnap and T. R. Hardiman, of Vancouver. The object of the company is to acquire the Canadian Pacific Railway Company's cement works at Vancouver, and also the Saanich Lime Company's location on Tod Inlet, Saanich Arm. The capital is $500,000.

At the last meeting of master plumbers and steamfitters of Toronto, a communication was read front the City Council with reference to the lowering of the license fee. After a lengthy discussion it was resolved that a high license and thorough examination, before allowing apprentices to work at the trade, were necessary to protect the master plumbers against unjust competition, and to insure good sanitary arrangements for citizens.

