<doctype type="text">	118	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ASBESTOS " author="">

ASBESTOS.

To the question, "What is asbestos?" it is not altogether easy to find an answer. Geologists classify it among the hornblende. In itself, asbestos is a physical paradox, a mineralogical vegetable, both fibrous and crystalline, elastic vet brittle, a floating stone, but as capable of being carded, spun and woven as flax, cotton or silk. It is apparently a connecting link between the vegetable and the mineral kingdom, possessing some of the characteristics of both. In appearance it is light, buoyant and feathery as thistledown yet, in its crude state, it is dense and heavy as the solid rock in which it is found. Apparently as perishable as grass, it is yet older than any order of animal or vegetable life on earth. The disserting influences of time seem to have no effect upon it. The action of unnumbered centuries, by which the hardest rocks known to geologists are worn away, has left no

perceptible imprint on the asbestos found embedded in them. While much of its bulk is of the roughest and most gritty materials known, it is really as smooth to the touch as soap or oil. Seemingly as combustible as tow, the fiercest heat cannot consume it, and no known combination of acids will destructively affect the appearance and strength of its fibre, even after days of its action. It is, in fact, practically indestructible. Its incombustible nature renders it a complete protection from flames, but beyond this most valuable quality its industrial value is greatly augmented by its non-conduction of heat and electricity, as well as by its important property of practical insolubility in acids.

Asbestos has been found in all quarters of the globe. It comes from Italy', China, Japan, Australia, Spain, Portugal, Hungary, Germany, Russia, The Cape, Central Africa, Canada (Fig. i), Newfoundland, this country, and from Southern and Central America.

Not withstanding this wide distribution of asbestos, the only varieties which at present appear to demand serious consideration, from a commercial point of view, are the Russian, the South African, the Italian and the Canadian.

Before the development of the Canadian fields, the Italian asbestos was supreme in the market. For nearly twenty years Italy has been looked to for the best grades of the fibre. From a point on the northern mountain slope of the Susa valley is taken the floss asbestos fibre, the appearance of which in gas stoves is so familiar. In the same locality is found a fine white powder of asbestos, which serves for paint and other purposes. The mining is carried on at a height of from 6,ooo to 10,000 feet above sea level.

But the Italian asbestos industry, once so important, is already on the down grade. The difficulties of mining are very great, and unduly increase the cost of production The asbestos itself, judged by the latest standards, is of inferior quality it is not easy to spin, and it does not pulp well in the making of paper. Tile best grade is extremely rare, and its cost of mining and























FIG. I. CANADIAN ASBESTOS.



transportation is prohibitive. The supply from the Italian mines is rapidly falling off. As a matter of fact, Canada contains the great asbestos region of the world, ill the sense that while its mines are practically unlimited to productive capacity, the product is of a quality which fully meets the requirements of the newest and most exacting of the innumerable uses that are daily being found for it.

The process of manufacture is intensely interesting, more especially from the fact that as the industry is constantly entering upon novel phases, new methods of treatment and special machinery have to he devised. One of its special uses is for wall paper. This is a new application which will have a distinct effect in modifying the practice of indoor plastering. Instead of the ordinary

tedious and elaborate preparation of studs and strips, and the use of inferior and dust creating mortar, with its after—scoring, which is necessary to give cohesion to the final coat of plaster of Paris, a single coating of the asbestos is laid on. It has a glossy surface that will not crack, as, while firm, it is perfectly flexible. It can be put on the raw brick and a room of which the walls have been built in the morning can, before night, have a smoothly finished interior surface, shining like glass and as hard as a rock. A kindred application of asbestos is now coming into vogue in the shape of inflammable decorations for walls and ceilings. These are used a great deal for the saloons of steamships. They are embossed in very beautiful designs, and can be treated with gold, varnish, lacquers, or any other substance, for tile enhancement of their ornamental effect.

Firemen clad in asbestos clothing and masks, as are those of London and Paris, can walk t h rough the hot test flanle with comparative impunity'. Asbestos fireproof curtains have reduced tile mortality of theatre fires in a very appreciable degree.



Probably one of the first applications of asbestos in this country



















































FIG. 2.—ASBESTOS MINING.



was to roofing. To buildings covered with this material, the shower of sparks from a neighboring conflagration involves no danger. The fact that woodwork call, by its use, be made uninflammable has come to be an important factor in the insurance of buildings.

One of the largest branches of asbestos manufacture is that of sectional cylinders for pipe coverings, for retaining the heat of steam and other pipes, felt protective coverings for boilers, frost-proof protections for gas or water pipes, and cement filling, which can be laid on with a trowel, for the covering of steam pipes, boilers or sills. In some of these cases, where it is only necessary to retain the heat, the asbestos is mixed with other substances but where the protection must be fireproof as well, only asbestos is used.

Another very extensive department in asbestos manufacture is that of packings. Of these there are an infinite number of forms.

Tile making of asbestos paper varies from the building up of the thickest millboard to the production of a writing paper which, from its indestructibility, is valuable in case of fire for preserving charters, policies, agreements and other important documents.— George Hell Guy, in New York Evening Post.





Some twenty cars of stone, from the Tilsonburg quarries, have arrived at London for the construction of the Grand Trunk shops.

It is reported that Mr. Thomas Parker, proprietor of tile Port Credit Pressed Brick & Terra Cotta Co., is negotiating for the purchase of the works of the Toronto Pressed Brick Company at Milton, Ont.

The French syndicate which recently purchased the St. John Stone Chinaware Co.'s potteries at St. Johns, Que., has completed its organization in Paris, and Messrs. Graves, Aube and Vannier, the promoters sailed for Canada on the 15th inst. Mr. Adrian Vannier has been appointed manager.

