<doctype type="text">



order until used, by taking the same precautions as in window frames.

Old scantlings and joists may have all nails drawn or hammered in before piling away.

Counters, shelving, drawers and other store fittings should be kindly dealt with. They will be wanted sooner or later.

Take care of the locks, hinges, bolts, keys, and other hardware. Each individual piece represents money in a greater or lesser sum.

Old flooring can seldom be utilized, though I have seen it used for temporary purposes, such as fencing, covering of veranda floors while finishing work on plastering, etc. As a rule, however, it does not pay to take it up carefully and preserve it. Conductor pipes, metallic cornices, and sheet metal work generally, can seldom be made available a second time, though all is worth caring for, as some parties may use it for repairs.

Sinks, wash-basins, bath-tubs, traps, heating appliances, grates, mantels and hearth-stones should be moved with care. They are always worth money and may be used in many places as substitutes for more inferior fixings.

Marble mantels require the most careful handling.

Perhaps the most difficult fixings about a house to adapt a second time are the stairs. Yet I have known where a man has so managed to put up new buildings that the old stairs taken from another building just suited. This may have been a ''favorite accident," but the initiated reader will understand him. Seldom such accidents can occur.

Rails, balusters and newels may be utilized much readier than stairs, as the rails may be lengthened or shortened to suit variable conditions.

Gas fixtures should be cared for and stowed away in some dry place. They can often be made available, and are not easily renovated if soiled or tarnished.

It is not wise to employ men who have nothing but their strength to recommend them. As a rule they are like bears- have more strength than knowledge, and lack of the latter is often an expensive desideration. Employ for taking down the work good careful mechanics, and do not have the work '' rushed through." Rushers of this sort are expensive.

Never send old material to a mill to be sawed or planed, no matter how carefully nails, pebbles and sand have been hunted for; the saw or planer knives will most assuredly find some you over looked ; then there will be trouble at the mill.

Have some mercy for the workman's tools. If it can be avoided do not work up old stuff into fine work. If not avoidable pay the workman something extra because of injury to tools.

Don't grumble if you do not get as good results from the use of old material as from new. The workman has much to contend with while working up old nail-speckeled, sand-covered material.

<article title=" WHEN CARVING SHOULD BE EXECUTED " author="">

WHEN CARVING SHOULD BE EXECUTED.

IT would be interesting to learn, says the Scientific American, just why so many stone carvers prefer to work on the material after it has been built into a structure rather than on the block before placing. When interrogated as to this preference the usual answer is that it is thus easier to match the cutting on adjoining blocks, or that one gets a better idea of the effect in this

way. Or perhaps it may be argued that there is danger of damage to delicate reliefs in handling the blocks and getting them into position. Yet neither or all of these appear to be sufficient reasons sufficient, that is, to offset the disadvantage of working in awkward positions, of not having spare tools handy, and of the danger of mutilation of a placed stone by a slip. As to the latter, which would apparently be a very serious and expensive matter usually, one carver, whose specialty is scroll and leaf cutting, medallions, pilaster and column capitals, etc., sax's that he can generally get over or conceal small breaks by slightly altering the design. But, after all, the practice does not seem reasonable, and none of the explanations are quite satisfying Of course, there are cases where there is no choice, but for the most part the ornamental work could, it would seem, be done to better advantage in the yard or under cover than when the workman is slung up on a staging. All the delicate reliefs, even in limestone and sandstone, or soft material in general, could be crated and otherwise protected for handling in setting up.

Both systems seem to have been followed by the ancient Egyptian and Greek cutters, though it is not always easy to determine the method. From what is known of the skill of the old constructors in getting heavy material into place, making close joints and perfect matching, it may be concluded that a large part of the carving was done before erection. We degenerate moderns, too, have some tricks of our own, going so far now in good practice as to have pressed and ornamental bricks snugly packed in crates at the brickyards, transported in these crates, and finally swung up in them to the level where the bricks are to be set, and not for convenience in handling merely, but to avoid chipping of corners and edges, thus effecting quite a little Saving'. Finished stone also can be protected against rough usage in transportation, as is being done daily everywhere.

It was suggested to an expert carver who favored the plan of working on the building rather than on the unassembled parts of it, that his preference was perhaps only the outcome of convention and habit, and it was delicately intimated that possibly he had not even considered the matter seriously. But he would not have it that way at all, though he could not make the meddlesome outsider understand why he liked to work lying down or doubled up rather than in the normal posture of other artisans.





PERSONAL.

The death is announced of Mr. Wm. Cain, a prominent contractor of St. John, N. B.



Mr. Charles Crane, contractor, formerly of St. Thomas, Ont., met his death at Sault Ste. Marie by falling from a building.



Hamilton Kitchen, of the firm of Kitchen & Shea, plumbers, Fredericton, N. B., had his arm dislocated recently in a collision while riding his bicycle.



Mr. August Prestien, contractor, of Hespeler, was accidentally killed while stepping from the motor car to the trailer on the (;alt, Preston and Hespeler electric railway. Deccased was a prominent citizen of the town, and had also served as municipal councillor.



Mr. Frank H. Doty, of the Dot Engineering Works, and President of the Toronto Dredging & Contracting Co., Toronto, was accidentally killed while engaged on a dredge at the island. He was standing on the platform of the dredge directing the movements of the scoop, when the big wheel slipped a cog and the iron bar swung suddenly around, striking him on the head.

