<doctype type="text">

























<article title=" The National Association of Builders " author="">The National Association of Builders.

































































<article title=" Reading Drawings " author="">

Reading Drawings.

THE tenth annual convention of the

National Association of Builders of the

United States will open at Buffalo on September 15th. in view of the recent change of methods on the part of the labor unions in substituting for strikes a united effort to wrest from the governing bodies such legislation as ~vill secure to them advantages over the employers, the National Association propose at their approaching convention to discuss thoroughly the reasons for and against the Association of Builders, it is felt that if the master builders are not to be placed at the mercy of the unions they must seek by as perfect organization as possible to protect their rights and interests. Some of our Canadian master builders might profitably attend the Buffalo convention, get thoroughly imbued with the ideas of their American contreres, and on their return to Canada set the ball rolling in favor of a Provincial or Dominion Builders' and Contractors' Association. In view of the beneficial work which lies before such an organization, it is most surprising that nothing of the kind exists in this country.



As a rule country builders know very little about draughtsmanship, and care less. Very fe~v farm buildings are put

on paper before the work of erection begins, unless the farm is pretty close by a city or town ; then the house assumes a somewhat pretentious character, and, when this is the case, the country builder generally fights shy of the contract and the work falls into the hands of the city or town contractor. \Ve see no reason why country builders should not be able to read an architect's drawing just as well as his city rival, and there is no cause for fear on his part of a trained architect exacting more from the countryman than the owner of the building would. Indeed, under the supervision of an architect, the builder stands a much better chance of being fairly dealt with and of giving better satisfaction than would other~vise obtain. If builders in the rural districts would master the art of plan reading, ~vhich they can readily do, we fancy they ~vould not have so much prejudice against them or against architects, and they' would thereby be in a better position to successfully compete with the town or city contractor on ~vork in their o~vn neighborhood a condition ~vorth striving for.



IF proper steps are taken when a foundation is laid which is intended to carry a brick or stone superstructure,

there will never be any dampness in the walls above the lower joists. A ''damp course" of slate should be laid in the wall across the whole thickness, under the first tier of joists, and should be well bedded in with neat Portland cement. if slates can not be obtained a thick

Damp Courses. Laying Base. <article title=" Damp Courses. Laying Base " author="">

coat of asphalt mortar may be used on top of the stone work on which the brick~vork max start ; if well done, the asphalt will prevent dampness from rising in the ~valls. if neither slates or asphalt is obtainable then it will be well to finish the top of the wall with a coat of

neat " Portland cement, and to lay the first two or three courses of bricks in cement mortar. This latter method is by no means a sure success, but, if adopted, it will do much to~vards keeping the upper walls dry. We have known sheet lead to be used on walls as a damp arrester and it was a decided success, but costly, and not by any means lasting. It is said that just below the line of earth around the base of the Cathedral of Cologne, sheet copper was laid on the walls for the purpose it is supposed of preventing dampness ascending the walls, ~vhich it has effectually done, and in the joints tinder the massive towers ot the Cathedral where the copper ~vas placed, the weight above has settled on the copper with such a pressure that the metal has actually oozed out of the joints and formed a solid copper bead ~vhich runs all round the foot of the towers, inside and out. No brick or stone building should be erected, particularly in the rural districts, ~vithout being fully protected by a " damp course."



THERE are many places where it is the height of folly to put down base or wainscotting after the floors are laid.

Take kitchens for instance Here a floor is scarcely ever carpeted, and it is more used perhaps than any other floor in a house, and, this being the case, it is only a matter of time, and a very short time at that, before the floor will be so badly worn that a new floor will be absolutely necessary. Now, it the old floor is to be taken up and in nine cases out of ten such will be the result then the base or the lo~ver member of the wainscot must be taken off the wall, a process that is difficult and fraught with danger to the wall and to the wood-work removed, as it is likely to be split, broken, or so badly shattered as to be unfit for use again. To avoid all this, in rooms in ~vhich the floors are likely to be much used and quickly worn out, a rough floor should be laid down first, and then the base or ~vainscotting should be put down, the lowest member fitting down to the rough flooring ; then the top or finishing floor should be put down tight between the base boards. In the angle where the floor adjoins the base, an ovolo or quarter-round should be nailed well on the floor, which ~vill have a tendency to keep the floor warm. When it becomes necessary to take the floor up, it may readily be done by removing the ovolo moulding which may be used again when the old flooring can be torn up without removing or injuring the base boards in the slightest. It is an awkward job to tear up an old floor and put down a new one, if all the base boards have to

