<doctype type="text">

THE CAUSE OF INSANITARY DWELLINGS. <article title=" THE CAUSE OF INSANITARY DWELLINGS " author=""> to inquire into the cause of the prevalence of insanitary arrangements and bad plumbing in dwellings, assigns for these three principal reasons, viz.: (I) The prevailing indifference and consequent ignorance of all classes as to the various sanitary appliances by which they are surrounded ; (2) the bad work and cheap materials put in many houses by either unqualified or unscrupulous men, encouraged by a dangerous practice of putting such work up to tender, and (3) the cost of rectifying insanitary work. The first of these causes is, we believe, the foundation one. The majority of people will not take the trouble to study the principles of sanitation to the degree necessary to reveal to them its important bearing upon health and life. Knowing nothing about the subject, they do not trouble themselves about dangers which are not visible to the naked eye, but rather concern themselves with the outward and inward appointments of the house, and accept by faith the assurance that the drains are all right. If the public would wake up on this question, and be as particular about the sanitary as about the other appointments of the houses they live in, there would be seen an immediate improvement in the character of plumbing work. Great advancement has been made within the past decade as the result of efforts of local boards of health and municipal enactments. It is to the credit of the leading plumbers in Canada that they have always shown themselves eager to assist the public bodies in bringing about improved conditions, and the recently organized Dominion Master Plumbers' Association has avowed this to be the principal object of its existence.



<article title=" PICNIC OF LONDON BUILDERS " author="">

PIC-NIC OF LONDON BUILDERS.

THE fifth annual picnic of the builders of London, Ont., was held at Port Stanley on Saturday, the 8th inst., and proved quite as enjoyable as any of its predecessors. There were present nearly 2,000 persons who were connected with the several trades in the building line. The games and sports were a feature of the day. The judges appointed were Messrs. W. Skelly,

E.	Fitzgerald, Geo. Tambling, Geo. Riddle, J. G. Pritchett and H. C. McBride. Races were arranged for the members of the several trades and lively contests were witnessed. A baseball match was also played between two picked teams. The general committee in charge of the arrangements comprised Chairman, Wm. Smith ; treasurer, John Nicol ; secretary, Walter Toll, and Messrs. R. Lewis, N. Graham, J. Quick, LI. Boyer, J. Eggett, Thomas Rich, W. Pring, W. Burleigh,

J.	Boon, L. Stevenson, B. Sage, J. Walker, T. Irwin, G. Rougley, W. Bennett, J. Pritchart, W. Stone, and Ed. Hunter.



<article title=" MODERN PRACTICE IN INTERIOR WIRING " author="">

MODERN PRACTICE IN INTERIOR WIRING.

IN the course of his paper on the " Evolution of Interior Conduits from the Electrical Standpoint," before the National Electric Light Association at New York, Luther Stieringer made the following statement:

The best experience in the past fifteen years in interior wiring has demonstrated the following facts

First— Indiscriminate wiring with staples is universally condemned.

Second—Cleat wiring is admissible in exposed work

where the circumstances admit, but not in concealed work.

Third Wires imbedded in plaster, depending on the insulation only for protection, are condemned.

Fourth— Lead-covered wires are also condemned, except where protected in a conduit.

Fifth Wires in mouldings do not afford mechanical or chemical protection, and are only admissible in surface work.

Sixth—Wires carried in plaster, and covered with split or zinc tubes to prevent injury by trowels, are condemned.

Seventh—Glass or porcelain insulators can only be utilized in special cases of exposed work.

Eighth---Paper tubes do not afford absolute mechanical and chemical protection.

Ninth—Insulated tubes covered with a thin coating of brass or other metals do not afford absolute mechanical and chemical protection, but in exposed work they are to a certain extent admissible.

Tenth woven fabric conduit does not afford absolute chemical protection.

Eleventh.—Heavy insulating covering, integral with the insulation offers no absolute protection against mechanical and chemical injury, and is analogous to rubber tubing for gas distribution installed throughout a building.

Twelfth Concentric wiring is practiced in England with satisfactory results, but it is not in use in the United States. It offers many possibilities in the direction of a solid and fixed system.

Thirteenth Paper-lined iron or steel pipes, known as iron-armored conduit," " builders' tube," "armorite," Clifton," and plain iron or steel pipe, are the only conduits that can afford absolute security against mechanical and chemical injury and assure permanence.



<article title=""TIPS" FOR BUILDERS " author="">

"TIPS" FOR BUILDERS.

NEVER compete with a "botch" if you know he is favored by the person about to build. He will undercut and beat you every time. Old material should never be destroyed simply because it is old.

When putting away old stuff see that it is protected from rain and atmosphere.

It costs about 15 per cent. extra to work up old material, and this fact should be borne in mind, as I have known several contractors who paid dearly for their '' whistle " in estimating on working up secondhand material.

These remarks apply to woodwork only. In using old brick, stone, slate, and other miscellaneous materials it is well to add double price for working up.

Workmen do not care to handle old material, and justly so. It is ruinous to tools, painful to handle, and very destructive to clothing.

In my experience I always found it paid to advance the wages of workmen —skilled mechanics --while working up old material. This encouraged the men and spurred them to better efforts.

Sash frames, with sash weights, locks and trim complete, may be taken out of old buildings that are being taken down and preserved just as good as new by screwing slats and braces on them, which not only keeps the frame square, but prevents the glass from being broken.

Doors, frames and trims may also be kept in good

