<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TESTS OF PAVING BRICKS " author="">

TESTS OF PAVING BRICKS.

THE accompanying table shows the results of tests of several kinds of paving bricks conducted under the direction of Mr. E. H. Keating, City Engineer of Toronto. The following particulars of the method of conducting the experiments are furnished in his annual report

For the abrasion tests, the bricks, after being measured and weighed, are placed in a tumbler with 200 lbs. of foundry shot. The machine is then run for 2,000 revolutions at 30 revolutions to the minute. The bricks are then taken out and weighed, the percentage of loss estimated and returned to the tumbler, which is given another 2,000 revolutions at the same rate.

Upon the completion of the second 2,000 revolutions the percentage of loss from the original weight is again determined, and the loss in cubic inches for each square inch of surface can be calculated. The tumbler in use measures 24X37 inches, inside measurement. A good paving brick under this treatment should not Jose more

AN INTERESTING SUIT. <article title=" AN INTERESTING SUIT " author="">

Koksilah Quarry Co. vs. the Queen, a case of much general interest and involving a large sum of money, was commenced before Mr. Justice Walkern at Victoria, B. C., recently. This was an action brought by the Koksilah Quarry Co. to recover $12,500 damages by reason of alleged breach of contract in connection with the supply of stone for the Provincial Parliament buildings. The petition recites that in 1893 the government approved of a quality of stone quarried by the company and asked them for tenders for the delivery of stone from their quarry, to be used in the erection of the said buildings, and the company accordingly sent in a tender. In reply the deputy commissioner wrote the company that their stone had been selected and urged them to proceed with all necessary quarry work so that there might be no delay when the stone was wanted.

Afterwards, in February, 1894, some stone was de



TESTS OF PAVING BRICKS.

<article title=" TESTS OF PAVING BRICKS " author="">



















































than 9 per cent. in 2,000 revolutions, and not more than 12.5 per cent. in 4,000 revolutions, nor should the loss in cubic inches per square inch of surface exceed 0.09.

The absorption test should be made with the whole brick and also with broken pieces after being thoroughly dried and allowed to cool. The length of time the bricks should be immersed is 3 days, during which time the brick must not absorb more than 214 per cent. of its weight. Most of this absorption appears to take place during the first day.



The biggest association of master painters in the world, considering the area of ground covered, is that of Pennsylvania. This consists of nearly fifty different local associations, in as many cities, towns and villages, so that practically every master painter in the state is a member. The association exists by no means to "put down" the working man; on the contrary, delegates from the journeymen's unions are invited to be present at some of the meetings, while great efforts are made

fostering technical education and the interests of the apprentices.

livered at the site of the said buildings, and the company allege was accepted as a part performance of the contract and actually used but about this time the contractor refused to accept any more stone, although suppliants were always ready and willing to go on and complete their part of the contract. The company further say that stone has been used and is still being used, which, under the terms of the agreement, could have been supplied by them.

The defence contended that they never contracted with the company for the stone, but that the contractor for the buildings, the late Frederick Adams, was the party who made the contract for the stone. It is further stated that the stone was condemned by the architect of the building as unfit for the purpose required.	___________________





A dispute has arisen between Mr. Borque, the contractor for the Dominion reformatory at Alexandria, Ont., and the government architect, regarding the foundation which is being laid, and the contractor has asked that an outside authority be called in. Mr. Perrault, of Montreal, has been asked by the Department of Public Works to report in the matter, and has consented.

