<doctype type="text">	126	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER

<article title=" STONE CRUSHER OPERATED BY ELECTRICITY " author="">

STONE CRUSHER OPERATED BY ELECTRICITY.

THERE has recently been installed at Peterboro, by the Royal Electric Company, an electric motor for operating a stone crusher, used by Messrs. Corry & Laverdure, contractors for the construction of the Trent Valley Canal, to crush all stone required for that section of the canal. The plant is said to be the first of the kind and the only one in commercial operation in Canada.

The current to operate the stone crusher is transmitted from the station of the Peterboro Light and Power Company, a mile distant. The motor plant consists of a fifty kilowatt alternating current synchronous motor, with its exciter, and a five horse power starting motor. The alternating current is taken by the motor directly from the transmission line at 1,000 volts. The stone crusher is belted to one end of the shaft of the synchronous motor, to the other end being belted in tandem the exciter and starting motor.

To indicate to the attendant on the stone-crushing plant the proper time to connect the synchronous motor with the alternating current transmission line from the station, a synchronizer is used, which consists simply of two transformers, so connected that when the synchronous motor is at the required speed and in step with the generator, a mile away, a lamp connected with these transformers goes out, giving positive indication to the attendant when to connect the motor with the transmission line.

The plant was started June 17th and the stone crusher has been successfully doing its work every day. It has been put to the utmost test ; the greatest possible loads have been put on ; the crusher has been jammed full of the hardest stones obtainable ; the greatest variations possible in load, from nothing to the extreme capacity of the crusher, have taken place rapidly, but no variation in speed occurred, the synchronous motor meeting every demand upon it without change.

Messrs. Corry & Laverdure express themselves as pleased with the operation of the plant.

<article title=" THE USE OF QUANTITY SHEETS IN PLUMBING " author="Horton, F.">

THE USE OF QUANTITY SHEETS IN PLUMBING.

MR. F. HORTON, contractor, of Montreal, writes as follows to the Plumbers' Trade Journal advising the use of quantity sheets in figuring on plumbing, heating-, and electric lighting

I enclose you a copy of plumbing, heating and electric and gas fitting quantities, which you may make public in your valuable paper, and which I claim has been much needed in the contracting business. The cost of the quantity sheets is very little more than ordinary paper. It takes less room in your pocket than a book would, and is also a memory refresher, by the notes being printed on the sheets, which leads you to examine the specification more closely. Also, you can tear one of the sheets from the pad which you carry, hand it to your bookkeeper, who needs no further explanations, thereby leaving you more time for other business.

I wish to say there have been many contracts taken below cost in Montreal by mistakes being made in taking quantities of the plans and specifications. I know of instances when the brother contractors have assembled and discussed about the successful contractor taking the contract below cost of their tenders, and the successful contractor at the same time felt sure he had made a good living profit on his price tendered to the

architect. But on the completion of job, all charges being in for labor and material against the contract, he found that he was a loser of some hundreds of articles through leaving out by mistake things specified by not having a quantity sheet or memory refresher, which is, no doubt, the cause of so many jobs taken low.

I can scarcely understand that any sane contractor will take a job below cost. There is nothing in my estimation for a contractor to gain by doing ten thousand dollars worth of business which has cost him ten thousand five hundred. He has lost one year of his life and five hundred dollars in cash. lie is a sadder and a wiser man than before he signed his contract, and may have to make arrangements with his creditors, and lose his honorable name, by not paying a hundred cents on the dollar.



F. HORTON, Contractor.

	MONTREAL,	189





Heater No.



Mains





Bronzing.





Boiler Foundation.





Expansion Tank.



Peet Valves.



Air	Tap and Valves of Drain Tap.



Drip Taps.



Smoke Pipe.



Labor.



Cart age.





Radiator.



Coils.



Rooms over.





F. HORTON, Contractor.

	MONTREAL,	189

	Kitchen Boiler.	Couplings	Stand        

	Bath.		Taps       Overflow, N. P.     

	Water Closet.		Tank... .Seat	 N. P. Flush   

	Wash Basin		N. P. Traps	Taps, N. P     

	Marble Slab.		And	Back          

	N.	P. Shower.	Hot and Cold                 

	Laundry Tub.		Waste     Stand      Taps    

	Kitchen Sink.		Trap       H. C. Taps       

	Pantry Sink.		Trap       H. C. Taps       

	Urinals.		Taps	Tank         

	City Drain.

	Hot Water Pipe.

	Cold Water Pipe.		Stop Taps                    

	Lead Waste.		Thimbles                    

	W. C. Ventilator.

	Soil Pipe.

	Labor.

	Gas Lights.		Gasoliers                    

	Electric Lights.		& Switches                   

	Electric Bells.		Announciator                  

	Mechanical Bells.		& Pull                      





The Master Plumbers Association of St. John, N. P., and vicinity held a meeting on the 7th inst., at which the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: President, Thomas Campbell, St. John 1st vice-president, J. H. Doody 2nd vice-president, Hamilton Kitchen, Fredericton secretary-treasurer

Peter Campbell, St. John.

