<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	125

<article title=" Painting Floors " author="">

Painting Floors

be taken down and put in place again when the new floor is completed, and often the plasterer has to be called in to mend and patch the broken walls after the carpenter is through, and following in the heels of the plasterer comes the painter, who is obliged to repaint the whole base or wainscot, in order to cover over the splits, cracks and patches the carpenter left behind, and all because the base had been laid after the floors were down instead of being laid down before the finishing floor went down.



IT is not an uncommon thing for a painter to be asked to paint a floor, and generally he is instructed as to the

color and other little matters. If the floor is one that will be subject to much wear and is to be painted with oil paint, the workman should select such coloring substances of certain earth)' matters only, for the use of white lead for this purpose is a mistake that should be avoided. Most people advocate the use of lead in painting floors because of its supreme density' and body, under the mistaken idea that density adds to its wearing quality. As a matter of fact, no oil paint will stand less wear than white lead, or colors composed largely of white lead. It simply covers the surface, and is one of the best paints employed to protect wood-work, where there is no great wear. Ochres make the best wearing paints, and they may be applied in several ways. They may be mixed with the oil and applied with a brush in the usual way, or they may be applied when mixed with hot stale beer and glue water, and when dry two coats of oil may be laid on thinly with a good strong brush and if properly done the work will be lasting and satisfactory. In every case the floor should be perfectly clean and dry, before the color is applied, and if the latter is !nixed with the oil, the floor should receive two coats, both of which should be well brushed in. If it is desired that the floor should present a varnish-like luster, the following may be employed, which answers the double purpose of making the paint more durable and adding the polish Dissolve two parts of shellac in eight parts of alcohol of about eighty per cent., and add to it one quarter of a part of camphor. When the whole is completely dissolved, it can be filtered or strained through a cloth in order to separate the suspended impurities. Paint the floor with this composition once or twice as may be required, and it may then be rubbed over with a soft cloth on which a little sweet oil has been applied, when a surface will be obtained that will be hard and glossy. When this top coating has been partly worn off, another application of the shellac mixture will restore it to its shiny condition.



THERE is a species of competition practised by owners, and often winked at by architects, which, while not exactly dishonest, is somewhat fishy, and it would be better for all parties concerned if the practice was "stamped out" entirely. Estimates are called for on certain work from a member engaged in the calling pertaining to it, but the particular friend of the owner, or of someone deeply interested, is given a sly glance at the figures of his rivals, with the suggestion that the lowest bidder is to get the work. The favorite always understands what this means, and generally so modifies his original demand that he gets the contract. All really honest men will deprecate this form of confidencing the unsuspecting tenderers out of the contracts

Sham Competition.

<article title=" Sham Competition " author="">which they have justly earned by the recognized rules governing fair competitions. A favorite may have a certain claim for preference so long as his bid is as low as the lowest ; but by what law of selection can he be chosen over those who put in lower original tenders for the same work with the implied understanding that all the contestants stood on an equal footing. This sort of sham competition is done every day by men who consider themselves as good and as honest as the best, and who would instantly resent any insinuations that reflected on what the world would term their honesty. True, there is generally a clause inserted in the advertisement asking for tenders which states, " that the lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted." But this clause is inserted in order to protect the owner against incompetent and irresponsible contractors, not for the purpose of ''cheese-paring" the tenders, and therefore has no force in cases similar to those under notice. Aside from the injury to the party rightfully entitled to the contract, the parties to the deception are placed in such relations to each other that the letter of the specifications cannot be rigidly enforced as when the competition has been fair and open. The contractor feels that, as his own price was not given him, little slights in the execution of the work should not be complained of, and the owner, recognizing the force of this agreement, lets the matter pass. There is another thing in connection with this '' sham contracting" that has a baleful effect. It has the effect of reducing the wages of the workmen, and of rushing the work through by driving the men at a steam engine pace, and it generally results in unsatisfactory workmanship and the introduction of inferior materials.

<article title="" author="">

SETTLEMENT OF THE LONDON STRIKE.

THE great strike in the building trades in London, Eng., in which 10,000 workmen were engaged, has been settled as the result of a conference between representatives of the unions and the Central Association of Master Builders. An advance of 1/2 d. per hour for plasterers, bricklayers, carpenters, mill-sawyers, and wood-cutting machinists, and a code of working rules for the future, has been agreed upon. The laborers refused an advance of 1/4 d. on the same terms, but returned to work at the old rate of wages. The agreement provides that unionists and non-unionists shall work amicably together, and that no dispute shall be undertaken until it has been referred to a joint committee of employers and workmen.

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS' OUTING " author="">

MASTER PLUMBERS' OUTING.

THE union picnic of master plumbers and their friends held at Mountain View Park, Hamilton, on the 31st ultimo, was a most enjoyable affair. The representation from Toronto and Hamilton was quite large, the plumbers of the latter place having closed their places of business for the day. London, Sarnia, St. Catharines, Brantford and Guelph were also well represented, and in all over three hundred enjoyed the day's recreation. Among the usual sports was a baseball match between Toronto and Hamilton master plumbers, in which the Toronto contingent suffered defeat.



Mr. W. J. Burroughes president of the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association, reports a steady increase in the membership thereof. At the last meeting no less than twelve new members were added to the roll, several being from adjacent towns.

