<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	"7



CORRESPODENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, all communications most be accompanied by the name and address of the author, not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]





<article title=" EFFECT OF THE CHICAGO CANAL ON CANADIAN WATER LEVELS " author="Baillarge, C.">

EFFECT OF THE CHICAGO CANAL ON CANADIAN WATER LEVELS.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



SIR :——Anent your query as to Mr. O'Hanley's remarks on the effect on our Canadian waters of the so-called Chicago Drainage Canal—but which has merely been called so to disarm suspicion, by conveying the impression of it's being a very trifling affair, while in reality intended as a maritime canal for commercial purposes, and which t he Government at Ottawa must have been blind indeed to Canada's interests to have allowed to proceed without even a protest of any kind on the part of the Dominion— I have not seen any thing of Mr. O'Hanley's report on the subject, but if, as I am told, this gentleman was, when too late, appointed by the then Dominion Government to report upon the probable effect of the Chicago Drainage Canal upon the water levels in Canada," I fail to see why he should have limited his conclusions to Lakes Michigan and Huron while it is evident that Lakes Erie and Ontario must be correspondingly affected, since these lakes are naturally made tip not only of their own particular watersheds, but of the outflow of the tipper lakes into them by the St. Clair and Niagara rivers and while it is, moreover, doubly evident that the whole of the St. Lawrence river between Ontario and title waters at Quebec or Three Rivers most be ten or a hundred fold more affected in its levels than are the great lakes, or in the ratio of the narrowness of the latter to the immense expanse of the former.

There is no doubt that every inch less in depth of water in the lakes must diminish by so much the draught to be given to every vessel frequenting these inland seas, to allow of their reaching to the same distances tip rivers, into hays and creeks and other inland waters.

The effect of the drawing off of some 6oo,ooo cubic feet of water from Lake Michigan has been variously stated at from one to seven inches, and this shallowing of the water has been correctly figured at millions of dollars loss on the combined lake trade.

But the difficulty and damage or loss, as far as the lakes are concerned, is not an irremediable factor, for it can be conjured and avoided by damming and locking the St. Clair and Niagara rivers and the outlets of Lake Ontario at Kingston, or preferably, and at less expense, below the Thousand Islands, and the waters this raised again and kept up to any required level as in a reservoir while, where the injury will admit of no remedy, and which does not appear to have as yet struck any one not even a professional engineer—notwithstanding that I was the very first in Canada or elsewhere to point out the evil and sound the note of warning as early as in January, 1895, (now more than 20 months ago) in an article then published in this journal, though written during the preceding December, 1894 and subsequently by letters to our Quebec papers, the Montreal Star of March 6, 1895, the Canadian Engineer, the New York Engineering Record, and my conclusions reproduced also by the Montreal Herald I say, sir, that where the evil will not admit of any compensatory process, and must forever remain unremedied, is, or will be, when the

canal ' is completed along the shores of the St. Lawrence between Kingston and tidal waters at Quebec or the Rivers.



Au inch of water less upon the lakes may be comparatively of no moment, and it is absolutely indifferent to lake traffic whether the lakes drain south towards the Gulf of Mexico or eastward to the Atlantic, towards the Mississippi or the St. Lawrence but while the quantity of water illegally diverted from the St. Law— by b

rent-e may be most trifling in its depth when minimized in

spread over such an area as that of our great lakes, not so, by any means, on the narrower waters of the rivers of which these lakes are feeders.

The flow of water over Niagara is hardly more than is million cubic feet per minute so die quantity we are being robbed of by our '' American Cousins '' (6oo,ooo cubic ft - per minute, as already stated), is not less than one—thirtieth or 3 1/3 per cent. Of the whole and without going into mathematical formulae to ferret out the exact number of inches b which the depth of flow must be effected, after allowing for the thereby slightly diminished velocity and slightly increased friction due to diminished depth, our people, unprofessional and all, will not be slow to see that, in the same way as in a sluice of any kind, a diminished quantity of water must be productive of less depth Oil the floor or bottom thereof,

so must a diminished quantity of water flowing through the St. Lawrence, as of any other river, resolve itself into a lesser depth of water over the floor or bed of the river.

In Lake St. Peter, for instance, where the present depth of channel, as dredged out, at a cost of so many millions to the country, is still but 2712 feet or thereabout, and Montreal clamoring for the expenditure of another $5,ooo,ooo.oo to increase the depth to 30 feet, such depth, even if attained, would be reduced by some eleven inches, or say a foot in round numbers, the moment the Chicago canal were open and then more millions would have to be thrown away in making up the deficit, while so soon as deficit No. t were made up, the projected enlargement of the canal ill question (and which is already provided for in the purellase of the right of way) would decrease the flow of the St. Lawrence by another 3 1/3 per cent.; and the carrying out of tile other projected ship canals from the great lakes towards New York and the Atlantic by way of the Hudson river successively another and still another and further or additional deficit of 5 and 10 per cent.; or a total of from 12 to 17 per cent., equivalent to a loss of depth and draught of one-eighth to one-sixth of the present flow through the St. Lawrence

Nor would this decreased draught for all species of river craft affect the St. Lawrence only between Kingston and Quebec; but, though ill a less degree, he prejudicial, retardatory of navigation far below Quebec, where, as at the "Traverse," so-called, vessels would have to wait an additional hour for their full complement of water, both on their journey tip and down, and this lose two hours or more, which at present can be improved in loading or unloading, or in 0111cr useful ways.

Again, this dearth of water would ill 110 way be confined to the St. Lawrence, but affect also its tributaries, as the Ottawa, the Richelieu, the St. Maurice and other feeders, where all river craft must henceforth forego the advantage of ascending these tributaries to anything like the wonted distance as of yore.

Sir, to me, the most outrageous feature of this whole concern is the daring and unfriendly spirit in which this work has been conceived, and by Congress sanctioned and proceeded with, in absolute disdain and mockery, so to say, of Canada and our people for it cannot but strike everyone as it struck myself the moment I read of it for the first time in December, 1894, and while glancing behind me at my map, that though Chicago be, it is true, some 500 miles within the northern frontier of United States territory, still are the waters of Michigan, as well as those of Superior, Huron, Erie and Ontario and as much as these, the feeders of the St. Lawrence, and that, if anything, Canada has the best right to them as they are mostly of northern watershed, and that the taking possession of any portion thereof, without agreement or without compensation to Canada, can therefore be looked upon solely as the grossest, the most outrageous spoliation of our national rights a most pertinent lesson too—while our solons at Ottawa were during the interval fooling away their time in squabbling over tile Manitoba school question, making it a subject of discord and disunion between us all, while the Pope of Rome is and has been long endeavoring to create peace and harmony between French and English, Protestants and Catholics, by his attempts at christian-like union and forbearance.

CHAS. BAILLAIRGE,



City and Civil Engineer.



Quebec, July 23, i896.



CHIPS.

A piece of rapid construction has beets that of the roadbed of the Moncton, N. B., street railway The whole length of the main line is over 12,000 feet, or 2 1/4 miles. The work of construction  occupied 47 days.

Charles Thompson, an employee of the Owen Sound Stone Company, was killed in the quarries at Orangeville on the 24th of July. He was standing on a coil of rope which was attached to a derrick, when the workmen on the derrick commenced to hoist

it.	Thompson endeavored to get off the rope and became en— tangled in it. He was carried up into the air and then fell wit It terrific force between two large rocks.

The privy council of England has dismissed the appeal from the judgement of the supreme court of Canada of December 9, 1895 affirming a decision of Mr. Justice Burbidge in the case of Ross and others against the Queen. The appellants brought an action in the court of exchequer of Canada by petition of right to recover from the Dominion government the suns of $231, 806 which they claimed to he due on two contracts for the construct ion of sections 9 and 15 of the Intercolonial railway.

