<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	115



ILLUSTRATIONS.

DESIGN FOR A PRIVATE	RESIDENCE, SUBMITTED IN THE



FINAL EXAMINATION OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC



ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS, 1896, BY JOS.



FORGET DESPATIE, MONTREAL.



DESIGN FOR CLUB HOUSE FOR ROYAL CANADIAN YACHT



CLUB, TORONTO.—--DICK & WICKSON, ARCHITECTS.



This building was recently destroyed by fire. It was not an entirely new building, the original structure being a large square frame building, the towers and verandah being added to it, the shape and size making the improvements a rather difficult problem to deal with.



DESIGN FOR BROADV IEW AVE. CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH,



TORONTO. DICK & WICKSON, ARCHITECTS.



The plan of this church is arranged with a slope in the floor towards the pulpit corner, and the choir was so placed that they could be both seen and heard without being obtrusibly near the preacher. The Sunday School room was to have been built with an auditorium several feet below the ground level. The roof is shown to have been constructed with three steel trusses over the entire span, the ceiling forming a shallow dome between them. The exterior was to have been of dark red brick and clear plaster in the timber work.



BRIDGE AT ISLAND PARK, TORONTO.

<article title=" BRIDGE AT ISLAND PARK, TORONTO " author="">

This bridge is an ornamental one of three arch spans, the centre one being 6o feet in the clear, and the two outer Spans 30 feet in the clear; the roadway is 22 feet wide between parapets. '[he whole structure is of steel and cast iron, no woodwork being used except for bridge deck. The design for the bridge and all working drawings of the cast iron parapet, galvanized iron columns and other ornamental work were made at the office of the City Engineer, Toronto.



The masonry, piers and abutments were constructed by Mr. A. J. Brown, of Toronto, and the superstructure executed by the Central Bridge and Engineering Company, of Peterborough.



COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR PROPOSED HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING, ST. JOHN, N. 13.—CURRY, BAKER & CO.,



ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.

<article title=" COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR PROPOSED HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING, ST. JOHN " author="">

This design was submitted in competition in the ordinary way, that is to say, the School Board advertised for sketch plans for a twelve-room school, class rooms to be 28 ft. X 32 ft., 14 ft. high. Total cost not to exceed $45,000. No premiums were offered, but it was intimated that the design most approved would be adopted and the author appointed architect of the building. Before taking these steps the board sent a commission to Boston and other parts of the Eastern States to examine school buildings there, and an exhaustive report was returned, showing the buildings visited to be very costly for the amount of space provided.



The authors of this design proposed to heat and ventilate the building on the "blast fan" or "plenum system, heat being provided from two steam boilers.



It was proposed to use buff pressed brick, with light green stone trimming, the roofs to be of red tile.





The Dominion Glass Company, of Montreal, has been incorporated, with a capital stock of $100,000.



Mr. W. H. Carrick, vice-president of the Gurney Foundry Co., Toronto, has returned from Great Britain, and appears to be well pleased with the prospects for the extension of the company's business in Europe.

THE LARGEST	ARCHED ROOF RINK IN AMERICA.

DEY BROS., of Ottawa, are building the largest rink in America of the arch style, without posts. It is to be 246ft. long by 100 ft. wide, and 58ft. 6in. high. The disadvantage of arched roofs is the settling of snow on the top. This is overcome by jack rafters, giving a pitch from 30 to 40 degrees.



To the front is built a two-storey structure. On the lower floor are two entrances into the parlors. Each parlor will be 22 ft. X 42 ft., and a long double-backed upholstered seat runs down the centre of each room. Above the main entrance is the Vice Regal box, sacred to the use of the Government party. On one side is a large banquet hall, and on the other three club-rooms. A gallery at front end and a promenade along the sides and rear afford accommodation for spectators.



The ice space will be 81x201 ft. The roof will be covered with 2,320 squares of shingles down to within 15 feet from the ground, from where it will be covered with iron sheeting.

<article title=" OTTAWA LETTER " author="">

OTTAWA LETTER.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



THERE are several buildings going up in this city, but not as many as last year. The Canada Atlantic coming into the heart of the city has necessitated the removal of some buildings, among them being Dey Bros.' rink. They are building another at corner Ann and Bay streets. The old military stores are used as a temporary It is the intention of the railway company to

	station.

run the line right down to Brigham's ferry, at which place the bridge across to Hull is to be built.

The McLeod street Methodist church, on the corner of Bank street, is constructed of grey stone, and is to cost in the neighborhood of $30,000.



Grant's music hall, corner of Bank and Sparks streets, has been overhauled, the floor raked, and a gallery put in, under the superintendence of G. M. Bayley, architect.

The Contractors' Association of this city had at one time a prosperous association, but the meetings have been neglected and the rooms almost permanently closed.

Ottawa should have a master plumbers' association to keep up with the other cities of the province, but as there is no plumbing inspector, any person can call himself a plumber. We know of instances where 3/8-inch pipe has been used for service pipe.

The plumbers' supply houses seem to be busy. Law Bros. have large orders ahead. Thos. Lauson is recovering from the fire in which he lost many of his patterns, and F. G. Johnson & Co. have developed into a supply house.

The city authorities are helping the working man by the extensive improvements of the streets and sidewalks. As many as 250

men have been working on Sussex street day and night. $50,000

is being expended on granolithic sidewalks.

Wadsworth & McWhinney have opened up on Bank street tinder the name of the Ottawa Roofing and Cornice Works.

Douglas Bros. having withdrawn their branch from here, Mr. J. R. Douglas has formed a company under the name of J. R. Douglas & Co., to carry on business as roofers, heating engineers and cornice workers.

The Gas Company have recently completed a large building, containing 6oo,ooo bricks. The building is 83 feet long and has a radius of 30 feet.

Orme & Sons' new block contains 8oo,ooo bricks, is four storeys high, and faced with light colored pressed brick.



The Toronto Brass Company, Toronto, have commenced the manufacture of builders' hardware, gas and electric fixtures.

The Bras d'Or Marble Company, of West Bay, N. S., have recently received orders for the supply of large quantities of marble for building purposes. They are said to possess fourteen varieties of marble in the immense deposit at Marble Mountain, some of which are exceedingly beautiful. The company are taking steps to extend their trade, and as the bulk of granite used in Ontaria and Quebec is imported from Italy, it is quite probable that a portion of this trade at least can be secured by Canadian companies.

