<doctype type="text">

suitable and appropriate. It is, however devoid of artistic feeling and very commonplace in design. The brackets tinder the cornice and the outline of the parapet or pediment over cornice are particularly objectionable. The figures and the Ionic capital in the pediment are good.

Lion" sends a carefully drawn design devoid of architectural character. It would be quite as appropriate for a journal devoted to the interests of agriculture.

Wilmot's '' design has already been	criticized It, moreover, has the disadvantage of being in pencil only

In the ease of '' Le chat noir '' the criticism applied to '' Lion'' would be equally applicable, with the further defect of extreme

paucity of ideas.

Hemans '' design is commonplace and badly proportioned while the drawing of the ornamental or freehand portions is very indifferently rendered.

GRANT HELLIWELL

	F.	S. BAKER,	Committee

J.	FRANCIS BROWN,

In view of the fact that none of the designs submitted possess standard of merit which would justify their use for the purpose intended, we regret to be obliged to withhold the awards, as in the conditions we reserved our right to do. As we feared at the outset, the subject of the competition proved to be somewhat unfamiliar to and beyond the scope of the students and draughtsmen in a young country such as Canada, but we are pleased that so many were to be found willing to make the attempt to meet the requirements. We exceedingly regret that one of the competitors a clever draughts-man- should have had so little ambition and such small sense of honor as to attempt to palm off upon the judges as the product of his own brain an exact copy of a formerly published illustration of a well—known existing piece of architecture.

<article title=" A CHAPTER FROM THE BOOK OF COMPETITIONS " author="">

A CHAPTER FROM THE BOOK OF COMPETITIONS.

Perhaps the following amusing skit may enable those interested to fully realize the difficulties of a competition, and the very natural dissatisfaction of competitors with awkward conditions which are not after all taken as binding conditions in settlement

2.	In the beginning was a certain place, named Seadrain, and great was the dirt around it.

2.	And certain of the people shouted, saving, '' We would wash, but baths there are none.

3.	And others that were in it said, '' We would read, but books there are none.

4.	Then those in authority spake unto the people saving, '' Will ye be rated therefor?

5.	And the people shouted "Yea," and the law went  out



6.	And the head men of the parish wrote to Cautious street, where is the Society for the Protection of Young Ideas and Gray Hairs, saying,

7.	"Name, we pray thee, an adviser, one of exceeding good judgment and cunning, that we walk in the paths of wisdom."

8.	And the wise man named one of exceeding great respectability, whose works none knew nor could cavil at.

9.	And the accessor shut him in a secret place, and communed with his own spirit, and the understanding which was in him.

10.	But he walked not in the ways of D amp-cottage, whose wisdom is always most evident.

11 For the papers he drew up contained those things which they ought not to have contained, and left unsaid many things that ought to have been said, and there were many words and little common sense in them.

1 2. And they laid burdens grevious and impossible to

carry out on the backs of the competitors while the assessor smiled to himself, saying,

13.	'' Many printed pages have I written that the Building Committee may laud and magnify me for all time.''

14.	'' For they will say, careful is he and of exceeding cunning these fellows of architects we have chastised with whips, but he breaketh their backs with scorpions."

15.	Then certain of the profession murmured and raised an outcry, saving,

16.	'' Hard and impossible are our conditions ; how can a market be a town hall, or a fish be a serpent in aspect?"

17.	''And why should we of the profession make details useless and unnecessary to thy judgment?

18.	'' HOW can we judge of old lights, knowing not what existed of old time ?

19.	But the assessor hardened his heart and laughed in his sleeve saving,

20.	"It is practice most excellent for ye, and in no way will I save ye the trouble."

21.	And he finally gave judgment in this wise, pronouncing

22.	" Rabbit place I first, and others second and third in merit."

23.	And certain of the competitors muttered and murmured aloud, saying,

24.	''Thou regardest not thy own conditions, nor givest judgment by thy printed provisions."

25.	But he was exceeding merry and laughed again, and told them,

26.	'' No man hath kept the conditions to the letter, for the conditions were impossible and in many ways utterly needless."

27.	'' Lo, I could have thrown all ye aside, saying,

28.	'' Fools and idiots were ye, not to see you were trapped, and but sheep for the slaughter."

29.	'' No one will believe ye or listen to your cries, but will only speak thus and thus,

30.	'' He envieth one Rabbit, and his soul is utterly filled up with blackness."

31.	Thus it took place that men might write in after time, saying,

32.	Easier is it for a camel to gallop through the eye of a needle, than for justice and wisdom to be evident in the conduct of a competition. W. W. H., in the British Architect.



In filling up a cracked ceiling, use a plaster putty to which some glue size has been added, but take care to cut out the cracks in a V shape so as to form a key.



To make a tint stand well we must have at least two good coats of the same colour, on a good, firm, even foundation ; and it is better still if the prime coat is tinted with the same colour.

STRENGTH OF STEEL.-- -An experiment with a view to ascertain the relative resistance, under pressure, of the hardest steel and the hardest stone, was recently made at Vienna. Small cubes, measuring 1 centimeter of corundum and of the finest steel, were subjected to the test. The corundum broke under the weight of six tons, but the steel resisted up to forty-two tons. The steel split up with a noise like the report of a gun, breaking into a powder, and sending sparks in every direction, which bored their way into the machine like s h o t.

