<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Competitions " author="">

Competitions.

matters in which the Association is interested. No doubt as the result of this frequent intercourse and discussion, the Association has determined, with the assistance of the Arts Association of Montreal, to hold an Arts and Crafts Exhibition in the Art Galleries, commencing on the 8th of October, particulars of which are printed in our Montreal correspondence. It is to be hoped that the Ontario Association of Architects and other kindred societies will lend a helping hand to the enterprise. We doubt not the Exhibition will prove a gratifying success and a source of pleasure and instruction to all who may have the opportunity of visiting it.



IT is very doubtful, indeed, if the conditions of architectural competitions in Canada are improving. They seem

rather to be becoming more unsatisfactory as the years go by. For example, competitive plans were lately invited from architects throughout the Dominion and even in the Limited States for a public building to be erected in one of the remote parts of the country. When the designs were all in, and a meeting had been called to consider their merits, a member of the committee coolly suggested at the very outset that only the plans submitted by local architects should receive consideration. Fortunately there were on the committee men with clearer perceptions of equity, through whose influence the outside competitors received more considerate treatment. If it is the wish to give work of this character to local architects, the competition should be restricted to these. It is a most despicable proceeding to invite outside architects to submit designs, with the intention of appropriating the fruits of their study and skill for the benefit of a local architect. This, however, is the course which has been followed in more than one competition in this country.



IT is announced that in connection with the annual convention of the Ontario Good Roads Association to be held

simultaneously with the Toronto Industrial Exhibition, there will be given an exhibition of road-making and road-making machinery. The movement for improving the public highways throughout Ontario was started at a most auspicious time, when the bicycle was commencing to achieve its prominence and popularity. The Good Roads Association can count upon the support of the army of bicyclists who have encountered the country road in all its deformity as it exists at present in many parts of the province. As large numbers of bicyclists are now to be found in every town and city in the Dominion, their advocacy should prove an important factor in bringing about the improvement which the Good Roads Association is endeavoring to promote. The appointment by the Ontario Government of Mr. Campbell, late city engineer of St. Thomas, as Provincial Road Instructor, has also been the means of giving strength to the movement. In this connection we notice that Mr. Campbell is not confining himself to giving instruction to the officials of rural municipalities, but is also placing his time and knowledge at the disposal of town and village corporations. In so doing it appears to us he is stepping beyond the legitimate bounds of his position, and is trenching upon work which the professional engineer might reasonably feel himself entitled to, and for which the municipality should feel called upon to pay.

The Good Roads Movement.

The 0. A. A. Conventions.

<article title=" The Good Roads Movement " author="">

<article title=" The 0. A. A. Conventions " author="">





















































































Building Regulations in Toronto.

THE Royal Institute of British Architects recently made a departure from their usual custom by holding their

annual dinner in the town of Manchester. This action of the Institute has met with approval, its tendency being to encourage a closer intimacy between metropolitan and provincial architects, resulting in advantage to their mutual interests. We submit to the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects that if meetings of the Ontario Association were occasionally to be held in cities like Ottawa, Kingston, London and Hamilton, it might be the means of inducing the architects of those cities to take a deeper interest in the welfare of the Association and the objects which it aims to accomplish. The fact that a large proportion of the membership of the Association resides in Toronto is no reason why the meetings should always be held in that city, as the attendance of outside members is always proportionately as good as of city members. Seeing that many of the city members are so lacking in interest that they do not put in an appearance at the meetings, it is scarcely fair that the outside members should be called upon every year to bear the expense of coming to Toronto. The members have had ample opportunity to become acquainted with the architecture of Toronto. Would it not be advisable to introduce them to the architecture of the other cities of the province and afford the architects of those cities a chance of occasionally doing the honors?





IMMEDIATELY subsequent to the Great fires which took place in Toronto in the early part of 1895, a committee of

members of the Ontario Association of Architects spent much careful effort in the l)reparation of a building by—law for submission to the City Council. The Council at that time extracted from the proposed by—law a few clauses which were incorporated into the existing by-law. The remainder of the recommendations submitted have since received no attention at the hands of the aldermen, and from present appearance the disinterested labors of the committee will be to a large extent valueless. It is well known to those who have anything to do with building operations in Toronto that the existing by-law is full of imperfections, and furthermore that it is very loosely administered. We have frequently referred to the fact that perhaps in the majority of instances building permits are granted subsequent, instead of previous, to the commencement of the construction of the building thus it becomes well nigh impossible to enforce compliance with the building regulations if these have been departed from by the designer or builder. The present by-law is noticeably defective in one or two particulars. Persons making application for a building permit are not required to submit with their plans a copy of the specifications, without which it is impossible to fully understand the manner in which the work is to be carried out1 Again, no copy of the plans is kept on file in the building department, and there is consequently no means of knowing when changes are made in the original drawings. An instance of the laxity with which the by-law is administered came to light the other day when a scaffold which was being used in connection with some repairs to one of the departmental stores, gave way, resulting in injury to several workmen. On investigation it was found that the work was being carried out without a permit from the

