<doctype type="text">



THE VENTILATION OF TRAPS. <article title=" THE VENTILATION OF TRAPS " author="Freamey, W. J.">

MR. W. J. Freamevy, Plumbing Inspector for the city of Minneapolis, Minn., in his annual report says -- " In addition to the regular inspection and routine work of this department, I have made a somewhat limited examination of the practical effect and desirability of the present system of so-called trap ventilators. My investigations confirm the opinion I have held for some time, that the crown and back-venting of traps, as now practised, is worse than useless, and its attendant heavy expense to builders is very often the cause of curtailing a large amount of necessary plumbing work. The most serious objection, however, to this pernicious custom is the sense of false security given to the owner or tenant of a house provided with so-called modern plumbing.

I made examinations in twenty-three houses, the plumbing work in which was done in the very best and most workmanlike manner, all of them having been constructed within the last seven years, in conformity with the ordinance governing plumbing. In twelve of the houses examined I found all of the vent pipes from traps under kitchen sinks completely stopped by congealed grease and particles of vegetable matter for a space from three inches to a toot above the crown of the traps they were supposed to '' ventilate." In most cases a strong wire was required to dislodged the obstruction.

Of the other eleven kitchen sink traps examined I found one only that was perfectly clear, and all the rest of the trap vents in this house were found in the same ideal condition, including the water closet vent The housekeeper informed me that it was the custom to put a pail of boiling hot water, with a can of concentrated lye dissolved in it, through every fixture in the house at least once a week ; also that the plumber having charge of the work had positive instructions to inspect the work, and remove all trap screws for examination at least once a month, so as to be sure all were in order. These very necessary precautions accounted for the model sanitary condition of this house. In seven of the houses I found a soft, slimy substance adhering- to the interior surface of the vent pipes for two or three inches above the crown of the traps. While the stoppage was not complete, there was every indication that an entire obstruction would soon result. The remaining three examined were partially stopped up, but in the case of these the vent was placed below the crown of the trap and so fashioned that the lower line followed the descent of the waste pipe. I also found, where couplings were used at the foot of wrought iron vent pipes, that the dislodged particles of rust form an accumulation sufficient in most cases to stop the opening in the bend. Wrought iron pipes without a lining of some non-corrosive substance should not be used for the purpose of back venting. The traps used in a majority of the cases examined were the usual form of " S" and " P" traps, with the regulation seal usually found in such traps. The result from stoppages, as indicated, will at once be apparent to any one who has given the matter the slightest attention. In this latitude, where for weeks at a time the ends of soil and vent pipes usually extending two feet above the roof— are completely sealed with accumulations of hoar frost, rendering them totally useless for the purpose of vents or for the escape of gases generated in the sewers, the matter assumes a very serious phase, requiring intelligent and immediate action.

With the vent pipes over the crowns of traps inoperative, and in addition the ends of soil pipes frozen solid, the inquiry may well be made, how is it impossible to avoid contagious diseases becoming epidemic?

This condition of things has been known to the plumber who makes any pretence of keeping up with the requirements of his business for several years. When the difficulty of obstruction caused by grease, as cited in cases of kitchen and pantry sink traps, was found to be of such a serious nature, the matter was brought to the attention of the proper authorities, and it was then that the expedient of the trap screws was resorted to as a cure for the evil. I think it is fair to assume that not one householder in fifty knows of the existence of the contrivance, and if they do, they don't bother about its use or what it was intended for.

The plumbing ordinance as at present in force is an invitation to the introduction of disease, and leaves the plumber no choice as to how the work should be constructed, no matter what his knowledge or experience may be. lie is arbitrarily compelled by legislative enactment, specifying penalties for infractions, to continue to observe the requirements of an obsolete ordinance.

Boards of health and physicians are, I believe, practically agreed in support of the germ and bacilli theories, and very properly advocate the establishment of municipal bacteriological plants, with competent bacteriologists in charge, to determine the exact family to which the various bacilli are related.

I have no hesitation in saying, if there be any truth in the accepted theories, there is no surer way for the insidious germ to gain admission to our residences than through the waste pipes as at present constructed. "An ounce of prevention," etc., might be applicable in this connection.

<article title=" THE PREPARATION OF MORTAR " author="">

THE PREPARATION OF MORTAR.

SOME very interesting suggestions relative to the proper method of slaking lime, preserving it in good condition thereafter, and preparing from it strong adhesive mortar, are given by Edward Wolff, an American authority. Among other things, he says -

"The slaking operation should be done in a watertight box made of boards, and so much water should be mixed in that the contents will never get dry, and a sheet of water will remain on top to prevent access of air. If the box will not hold the entire quantity of lime required, the contents may be emptied into a cavity made in the ground close to the pan, and this process may be repeated. This should be done at least two weeks before sand is added, or before the mortar is prepared for use. Slaked lime prepared and kept as stated has been found free of carbonic acid alter many years, air and gas not having been able to find access. Instead of following the procedure in slaking lime recommended above, we see in this country a faulty process adopted, which consists in loosely mixing the sand with the slaking lime immediately after water has been added and forming a dry heap on the surface of the ground, which is left lying there several weeks to give time for complete slaking before the sand is worked in evenly and the mortar considered ready for use. This heap arrangement is perfectly adapted to circulating air through a material which should be guarded against contact with air. The sun heats the surface of it, makes the air escape after it has given up its share of carbonic acid gas, while at the base of the heap and at the shady side a

