<doctype type="text">

the action of water, full allowance must be made for this.

The test-bars used in these experiments were made in moulds 30 in long by 4 in. square ; they were usually left in them, covered with wet bags, for about five days, when they were transferred to tubs and kept tinder water till the day before that fixed for breaking them. The bars were first weighed wet and then dry, the difference being the measure of their porosity, which, with whinstone, amounted to nearly one-half per cent., and for sandstone concrete to one per cent., proving the concrete to be practically water tight.

<article title=" RUSSIAN HOUSES " author="">

RUSSIAN HOUSES.

THE town architecture of Russian houses, both in its effect and arrangement, resembles the architecture of Italian and French houses, except that the roofs are covered with sheet iron painted with vivid colours, mostly green and red. The windows are double. The village houses are all log-houses (mostly of rounded logs), and very similar to the Swiss log-house, with the exception that the staircase is for the most part in the interior of the house ; the roof is high pitched, and covered with sawed boards projecting 6 ft. from the walls, white the Swiss roofs are flat and generally covered with wooden shingles. The chimney of the Russian house is of brick. On the less frequented roads the village houses are of much ruder construction; the rafters project above the ridge, and form by their closeness the entire covering ; the projections above the ridge are sometimes cut off, and the ridge piece is introduced, on which is rudely carved the representation of the head of some animal. The Russian village generally consists of one street, presenting on each side a range of bold projecting gables. The houses are of two storeys ; some of the better village, houses have a third storey in the roof, and a colonnade with a balcony on the ground floor, and occasionally a second balcony from the attic ; these balconies are always in the gable front. In the village there is a side entrance, with a pent-house roof over it, leading into the court where the sheds for the cattle are placed. The Russian stoves are well adapted for economizing heat. The flue is carried up and down, so as to fill a space of about 4ft. square, and to the height of about 10 ft. ; it is then carried off. These stoves stand in the corner of the room, so that they can warm four rooms. The flues are built of hollow porous brick, which of course contains the heat. The external surface is of white glazed and ornamental tiles. The fuel is usually birch, and when the flame is entirely spent a damper is placed on the flue, and the heated air thus enclosed diffuses itself through the rooms. The stove requires to be heated at most for an hour in the morning and another at night to maintain a high temperature (fifty degrees Fahr., for instance) during the twenty-four hours.



PUBLICATIONS.

Building Construction and Superintendence, by F. E. Kidder,

C.E., Ph. D., architect, author of The Architects' and Builders'



Pocket Book. Part I.—Masons' Work. Two hundred and fifty

illustrations, 409 pp. one large octavo vol., cloth price, $4.



New York: William T. Comstock.



It is somewhat remarkable that no complete work descriptive of modern building construction as practiced in this country has as yet been accessible to the would-be architect. To meet this want was the object of the well-known author of the work before us, and from a study of its contents we believe that his efforts will be highly appreciated by a large class of young men, and also by those whose duty it is to instruct them in this branch of the architectural profession.

LEGAL DECISIONS.

LYONS v. Wilkins (1896) I Ch. 8i i, shows, says the Canada Law Journal, that although the operations of trades unions have been to some extent legalized, there is still a limit beyond which they may not lawfully go. The facts of the case were that a strike had been ordered by the defendants, the secretary and a member of the executive committee of a trades union for the purpose of securing an increase of wages. F or the purpose of making the strike effective the plaintiff's works were picketed, that is, certain persons were posted in the neighborhood of the plaintiff's premises, who were furnished with cards requesting those to whom they were delivered to refrain from working for the plaintiffs. The pickets accosted persons on entering and leaving the plaintiffs' premises and endeavored to persuade them not to work for the plaintiffs. The executive committee also endeavored to get one Schoenthal, who was a manufacturer of goods for the plaintiffs, to cease to do work for them, and on failing to do so, they ordered a strike of his workmen. And another man named Scott, who made goods for thc plaintiffs, was also threatened with a strike if he did not cease to work for the plaintiffs. The action was brought for an injunction to restrain the defendants from procuring or conspiring to procure persons to break contracts with the plaintiffs, and from inducing or conspiring to induce persons not to enter into contracts with the plaintiffs. On a motion for an interlocutory injunction, North, J., granted the application and restrained the defendants from maliciously inducing or conspiring to induce persons not to enter into the employment of the plaintiffs. On appeal the Court of Appeal (Lindley, Kay and Smith, L.JJ.), though dismissing the appeal, varied the terms of the injunction so as to make it more strictly conform to the words of the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act, 1875 (38 & 39 Vict., C. 85), (see Cr. Code, sec. 523 (f) ), and restrained the defendants, etc., " from watching or besetting the plaintiffs' works for the purpose of persuading or otherwise preventing persons from working for them, or for any purpose except merely to obtain or communicate information," and also " from preventing Schoenthal or other persons from working for the plaintiffs by withdrawing his or their workmen from their employment respectively." The action of the defendants as regards Schoenthal, between whom and his workmen no dispute existed being held to be wholly illegal and unwarranted.



PERSONAL.

Mr. John Burns, plumber and gasfitter, of Montreal, returned a couple of weeks ago from a trip to Manitoba.

Albert W. Sanderson, the well-known contractor, of Fredericton, N. B., has resolved to remove to the Antipodes.

Mr. W. W. Doane, City Engineer of Halifax, was among the visitors to the recent Toronto Industrial Exhibition.

On the 10th of September Mr. E. J. Murphy, contractor, of Montreal, was married at Peterboro to Miss Minnie Hurley of that town.

News has been received of the death by drowning- in Lake Wadgumbang, Conn., of Benoni Irwin, a well—known painter, formerly of Toronto.

Mr. G. B. Clernents, contractor, of Toronto, while engaged in the construction of a residence on Spadina road, fell from a ladder and received a dislocation of his left shoulder.



Mr. Adam Kaufman, of Berlin, Ont., was awarded first prize for architectural drawing at the recent Industrial Exhibition in Toronto. Mr. Kaufman is about to take the course in architecture at Cornell University.

