	<doctype type="text">136	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



____ STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT. ______

MOULDINGS. <article title=" MOULDINGS " author="">

By examining antique mouldings, it will be found that in all the profiles the cyma and the cavetto are always used as finishings, and never applied when strength is required; that the ovolo and talon are always employed as supporters to the essential members of the composition, such as the modillions, dentels and corona ; that the chief use of the torus and astragal is to fortify the tops and bottoms of columns, and sometimes of pedestals, when they are frequently cut in the form of ropes and that the scotia is employed only to separate the members of bases, for which purpose the fillet is also used, not only in bases but in all kind of profiles. An assemblage of essential parts and mouldings is termed a profile, and on the choice, disposition and proportion of these depends the beauty or deformity of the profile. The most perfect are such as are composed of few mouldings, varied both in form arid size, fitly applied with regard to their uses, and so displayed that the straight and curved ones follow each other alternately. On every profile there should be a prominent member, to which all the others ought to be subservient, and seem either made to support, or to shelter it from the injury of weather, as in a cornice when the corona is principal, the cyma or cavetto cover it, and the modillions, dentels, ovolo and talon support it. When ornaments are employed to adorn the mouldings, some of them should be left plain in order to form a proper repose, for when all are enriched the figure of the profile is lost, in a cornice the corona should not be ornamented, nor the modillion band ; neither should the different facias of architraves, the plinths of columns, fillets, nor scarce any square number be carved, for they are, generally speaking, either principal in the composition or used as boundaries to other parts, in either of which cases their figures should be distinct and unembarrassed. The dentel band should remain uncut when the ovolo and talon immediately above and below it are enriched ; for, when the dentels are marked, particularly if they be small, the three members are confounded together, and, being covered with ornament, are much too rich for the rest of the composition a fault carefully to be avoided, as the just and equal distribution of enrichments is on all occasions to be attended to. For, in effect, the articles of sculpture in architecture are like diamonds in a lady's dress, with which it would be absurd to cover her face and other parts that are in themselves beautiful. When mouldings of the same form and size are employed in one profile, they should be enriched with the same kind of ornaments. It must be observed that all the ornaments of mouldings are to be regularly disposed, and answering perpendicularly above each other; the middles of the modillions, dentels, oves and other ornaments all in a line, for nothing is more confused and unseemly than to distribute them without any kind of order. The larger parts are to regulate the smaller; all the ornaments in the entablature are to be governed by the modillions or mutules, and these are to be dependent on intervals of the columns, and so disposed that one of them may correspond with the axis of each column. It is further to be observed that the ornaments must partake of the character of the order which they enrich, and those used in the Doric and Ionic orders must be of a simpler kind and grosser make than those employed in the Composite and Corinthian. —The Architect.

NOTES ON WINDOWS. <article title=" NOTES ON WINDOWS " author="">

IN planning a window , says a writer in A. A. Notes, one has to consider the room to be lighted, the quality of the light admitted and the quantity, under what external conditions the window has to serve, and what internal.

The height and depth of the room are material points to be considered the nature of the finishings, whether they are absorbent of light—such as oak paneling— or whether the walls will act as reflectors.

In town, one wants windows to give light as their main duty there is not much prospect to be seen and the valuable I)art of the window for that purpose is the upper sash

Consequently , the sill of the window may be placed high up, and the head should certainly be as near tinder the ceiling as the cornice and architrave will allow.

If, then, there is any sense in dividing one sash into smaller panes than another, it is the lower sash which should be divided. In the country you have to deal with a greater amount of light and of a more penetrating quality. Consequently, there not the same need for having the head of the window so near the ceiling, nor is the question of airing the room so pressing.

Also, in most cases, one may treat the window as a picture, where-—as in a painted picture —you do not want to have much sky, yet since sky is a source of ever-varying interest and beauty, one should be able to see that part of the picture with as much ease as the foreground.

As a rule too much light is provided, as shown by the inmates, who have to drape and swathe and extinguish about 6o per cent.

of the light before they can feel comfortable. Windows form the cold part of the room, and thus also form the draughts the less area, therefore the better. Where a window is undivided by sash-bars it might be to per cent. smaller than the divided one

The external conditions are sunshine and rain, wind and—in manufacturing towns—corrosive acids in the air. One's first care, therefore, is to make the setting of the window in the brickwork weatherproof. Most of the drawings are very faulty in this respect. Under the usual conditions in which windows are placed, the woodwork is sure to shrink somewhat, and provision should be made anticipating this. As much as possible avoid using projecting sills, and in towns using stone ones. On the sills collect dust, smuts and general dirtinesses the wind does not blow them away, it only blows them into corners The rain comes and the water fouled by this col1ection pours over either end of the sill and stains incurably the masonry in long incurable smears. The usual drip sunk on the under side of the stone sill is quite useless, for the wind blows the drops to the wall side of the hollow and then on to the wall itself.

The window has got to admit light in a pleasant form ; consequently, The spacing of lights is of great importance. The window, being part of the room, must be of the same scale as the room. Apart from the discomfort of a window looking as if it were open, when in reality it is closed—the great void of a window without sash bars is out of scale with the rest of the room. Each room has its own module, as all order has, and the size of the window panes should conform to it, either as implied or as 

expressed in the size of the panels to the door or the panelling. In my opinion plate glass should be used for sitting-room windows— indeed, everywhere if it can be sanctioned. It is both heavy and costly. But windows with plate glass can be made smaller than those of sheet, because plate glass transmits more light. As a Counterpoise to its Cost, one may urge that it gives you greater quiet and warmth and the blessedness of being able to see through it without distortion. The drawback to sash bars is that they add to the labor of cleaning. On the other hand, they lighten the weight of the sash and save it from being such a dangerously ponderous affair.

The window, after the hours of daylight are over, has to serve as an architectural feature. As a rule, it is generally blotted out by curtains because no provision has been made for their being hung. It is idle to ignore curtains and blinds. They are perfectly necessary parts of a window, and the architect should recognize this on his plan. The mass of curtain falling from ceiling to floor is grievously out of scale with the rest of the room, and, moreover, cuts through and breaks up all community of lines on that side of the room. Such large curtains have to be made of stout stuff to hang in proper folds. They arc costly to buy, heavy to mount, and generally difficult and disobedient to handle. Moreover, they are storehouses of din. I see no occasion to suffer this wrong and expense. It is brought about mainly by the wall under the window being made no thicker than the window-frame. The space so gained is dearly bought. The wall under the window is generally damp and always cold. If you carry the wall through the same thickness, you have the window-board of a convenient height and width to lay a book on or a bowl of flowers, and, moreover, you have constructed a proper place to terminate your curtains. Hang your curtains inside the architrave of the window, the silk ones close against the sash, the stuff ones at a proper distance away. These curtains are not long enough to be so heavy as to drag in skimpy folds; they do not require large poles or travelling laths, and the possibilities of your gear getting out of order—there is not so much area to buy or hold dust and at night, as well as by day, the decoration of your room is undisturbed and unbroken. With your curtains inside the window opening, you can inlay your architrave and cornice and get the pleasure of its effect, without having to peer behind the curtains in order to discover it.

