<doctype type="text">



FIREPROOFING TESTS.

Room 104, 22 William St.,

New YORK, N. V., July 27, 1896.



BULLETIN NO. 2.

<article title=" BULLETIN NO. 2." author="">

To the Tariff Association of New York ; to the Architectural League of New York, and to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers:—  GENTELMEN Your Joint Committee takes pleasure

in submitting to you a report of work done to date. As you will remember, we, the undersigned, were appointed a joint committee to investigate and test methods of fireproofing structural metal in buildings and to obtain data for standard specifications.

Your Committee, after having effected its own organization, determined to add to its numbers by the creation of an Advisory Board. This step was taken for the purpose of more widely increasing the interest taken in the experiments, and also to prevent, as far as possible, the impression that the work was of a sectional or local character. The names of the gentlemen who accepted invitations to serve on this Advisory Board, are as follows

Edward Atkinson, President Boston Manufacturers

Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Osborne Howes, Secretary

Boston Board of Fire Underwriters ; Charles A. Hexamer Secretary Philadelphia Fire Underwriters' Ass'n

H.	H. Glidden, Manager Chicago Fire Underwriters'

Ass'n ; W. Martin Aiken, Supervising Architect United

States Treasury Dep't, Representative Illinois Chapter,

American Institute of Architects ; Stevenson Constable,

Superintendent of Buildings, New York, Geo. B. Post,

New York Chapter, American Institute of Architects

F.	H. Kindl Structural Engineer Carnegie Steel Co.

John R. Freeman, Chief Inspector Dep't. F. M. 1. Cos.;

Henry Morton, President Stevens Institute of Technology; C'. J. H. Woodbury, Member American Society

Civil Engineers ; H. B. Dwight, Dwight Survey and

Protection Bureau, New York; F. C. Moore, Delegate

New York Board of Fire Underwriters to Board of

Examination of Department of Buildings ; Win. A.

Wahl, Secretary Franklin Institute, Philadelphia ; John

T.	Williams.

The Committee also wishes to take this opportunity of publicly thanking the parties mentioned below, for their offers of assistance, namely

The Continental Iron Works, for permission to use part of their yard and for numerous courtesies which have been extended to the Committee from time to time; the Carnegie Steel Company, Limited, for their offer to furnish all the structural steel that your Committee may need ; Messrs. J. B. & J. M. Cornell, for their offer to furnish the cast-iron columns for which your committee may ask ; Messrs. Sinclair & Babson, for their donation of seventy-five barrels of Alsen's cement ; the Lorillard Brick Works Company, through Mr. Henry M. Keasbey, for 54,000 common bricks; Mr. Henry A. Maurer, for his donation of 14,000 fire-bricks and fourteen barrels of fire-clay.



During the winter just past, your committee erected a testing plant as shown in the accompanying illustrations. The gas producer in the background is 9 feet in diameter, by 12 feet in height, and is equipped with a hopper valve on top. Gas is generated by means of steam from the boiler as shown, and carried into the furnace through pipes, as clearly indicated in the view

(Fig. o). The foundations shown on the left is ready for the erection upon it, of a furnace for testing beams and floors. Its dimensions are, length 27 feet, width 12 feet, but it can be arranged to take larger beams it so desired. The furnace shown on the right is for testing columns and is 14 feet square, outside measurement.

The arched roof is made of fire-brick and is independent of the side walls, being supported by outside corner posts. The walls are of common brick, but can easily be changed so that the experiments can be made on other materials. One side wall and the end wall with the door are 12 1/2 inches in thickness; the rear wall is 8 1/2 inches and the fourth wall is 4 inches inside, 2 inches air-space and 8'2 inches outside, making a total thickness of 14 1/2 inches.

The floor is covered with fire brick, with openings left for the branch gas pipes and air-spaces to support the combustion. These branch gas pipes are 4 inches in diameter, capped with tuyeres reduced to 2 inches. In order to increase the temperature when desired, a barrel of naptha is connected by means of a small pipe and blown into the gas pipe at the "Y" branch, by means of a steam-jet.

The column is placed in compression by means of an hydrauic ram underneath, resting on three twenty-four inch I-beams, the same as those across the top of the furnace shown in the view. In order to keep the entire length of the column within the furnace, filler-blocks of cast-iron are placed between the ends of the column and these I-beams. The hydraulic ram is 12 inches in diameter, and the water-pressure can be carried to 2,500 pounds per square inch.

The temperature is measured by means of a Uehling & Steinbart pyrometer. As this pyrometer is in commercial use and has been thoroughly tested and described in various scientific journals, it is not necessary to enter here into a detailed description.

The money to carry out this work has been advanced by various parties, and, together with the Committee's disbursements, is shown in the accompanying treasurer's rep 0 rt.



TREASURERS REPORT.

<article title=" TREASURERS REPORT." author="">



Committee on Fireproofing Tests, July 22, 1896:



SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVED.



Boston Board of Fire Underwriters	$400.00

Boston Manufacturers' Mutual Fire

 Ins. Co	200.00

E. H. Kendall	25.00

Carrere & Hastings	50,00

R. Magnicke	50.00

McKim, Mead & White	100.00

Sooysmith & Co	100.00

R. H. Robertson	50.00

Geo. B. Post	100.00

J. G. Howard	5.00

The Tariff Association	500.00

Bruce Price	100,00

Lamb & Rich	25.00

Clinton & Russell	100.00

American Sugar Refining Co	100.00

Philadelphia Fire Underwriters' As

	sociation	400.00

Continental Insurance Co	50.00 $2,355.00





SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVABLE.

The Tariff Association	500.00

Boston Manufacturers' Mutual Fire

 Ins. Co	200.00	700.00

	$3,055.00

	Cash on hand	18.62

	Deficit	29.68 $3,103.30

