<doctype type="text">

BY THE WAY. <article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

ALL beholders of the trades procession in Toronto on Labor Day must have been impressed with the air of comfort which marked the appearance of the workingmen and their families. The bricklayers turned out in large numbers, and made a most creditable appearance, in spite of the fact that in Toronto during the present season there have been very few bricks to lay.

x x x 



IN many lines within the past few years the services of men have been replaced by those of the fair sex. Hitherto this new form of competition has been an unknown quantity in the building trades. We learn, however, that this state of things is not likely to continue, a firm of cement dealers having recently engaged a lady as travelling sales agent. It is said that she fluently sets forth the advantages of the material and that her efforts have met with considerable success.

 x



" I WITNESSED a peculiar thing in New York once," said an insurance man to me the other day. "A number of the monetary institutions, occupying high buildings, became alarmed for the safety of their valuable documents, etc., in the event of the occurrence of a large fire in their locality. They talked the matter over and resolved to erect a fire-proof one story building, for use as deposit vaults. The building was erected accordingly and crowned with an iron roof. Some time afterward an extensive fire broke out in a building near by. As a result the buildings on all sides of the fire-proof structure, took fire. The heat became so intense that the iron roof of the fire-proof building curled upwards on every side, and was lifted to such an extent that the walls gave way and the whole structure collapsed. Of course," said the author of the story, ''the circumstances were very exceptional, and such as might not occur again in a hundred years."

xx xx

A CONTRACTOR from a Western Ontario town advises me that contracts are being taken in his locality below the actual cost of materials and labor. "It is impossible," said he, " in the face of the extreme competition, to pay your workmen and have anything left for yourself at the figures at which contracts are taken. I recently tendered on a small building so low as to reduce my profits to a minimum, but an examination of the tenders submitted revealed the fact that my estimate had been underbidden by a considerable sum." I asked my informant how he accounted for this, and he remarked that too many contractors rely upon making large profits on extras, with the result that they tender on the actual work as specified at almost any figure in order to secure the contract. Frequently this practice, which is altogether too prevalent, results in the successful tenderer losing heavily on the contract. It has also a tendency to encourage inferior workmanship in an effort to make ends meet, and should be severely discouraged by owners and architects of buildings as well as by all reputable contractors.

xxx x

THE agent for a large number of estates in Toronto informed me the other day that whereas a year or two ago he had about 8o vacant houses on his hands, at the present time he has but eight. Furthermore, he had gone to considerable pains to ascertain where his tenants had come from, thus to learn whether one section of the

city was being populated at the expense of another. His investigations disclosed the fact that the majority of the occupants of his houses had come from outside places to reside in Toronto. This indicates a steady growth in population, which, if continued, must shortly fill up the desirable vacant houses at present available, and stimulate the erection of new ones. There are a large number of empty houses in the city which will probably remain empty, as they deserve to do, until they fall to pieces, which is likely to be at no distant date. These belong to the class put up by speculative builders in the "boom" days. They were literally "thrown together," and from the very first were unfit for occupation. Such of them as found tenants proved death-traps to their occupants because of the cold-blooded disregard of consequences to human life displayed by the so-called "plumbers" of that period.

XXX



A HALIFAX architect with whom I had a conversation recently informs me that it is no longer possible to obtain in Nova Scotia clear native pine for interior finish, the supply having become exhausted. Such pine as !S now obtainable must be puttied and painted to make a presentable appearance. Such clear pine as is used is brought from Ontario, but owing to the distance it has to be carried, very little is imported. White wood, imported from the neighboring States, is chiefly employed as a substitute, but of course is not equal in quality. Most of the more pretentious buildings are now constructed of brick, and those of low cost of wood. The latter are shingled on the sides as well as the roof. The climate will not admit of the use of clapboards. The moisture from the foggy atmosphere, followed by the heat of the sun's rays, causes the clapboards to warp and split. The method was tried of boring out the centre of the log and sawing the boards diagonally to the center, but even boards cut in this manner succumbed to the influence of the weather. Cedar shingles for roofing and siding are imported from Bangor, Maine, at a cost of from five to six dollars per thousand. The shingles are held in place by heavily galvanized nails, and when properly put on are said to have a life of about twenty-five years. It is not possible in this climate to use galvanized shed iron for exterior cornices and ornamentation in the manner so common in Ontario. Stone, copper, and such like durable material, must be employed. While the cost of building is thus necessarily increased, there is less incentive to the dishonest use of materials.



Every intelligent business man must recognize the fact that advertising is not a matter to be let out to the lowest bidder. It might be so if all papers were of equal value as advertising mediums. But with this value in different publications ranging from nothing to the highest figure, it is contrary to the first principles of business to take the one that will do the advertising at the cheapest rates. It would be about as sensible to put in office men who might bid the lowest for the place. Fancy a great railway corporation, a bank, or an insurance company selecting its president and other officers by competitive bids, without regard to their qualifications, or the manager of an extensive mercantile business or a lawyer in a suit involving millions of dollars being selected because he is the lowest bidder! The purpose in all such cases is to secure the best services for the price paid.

