<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" EXPENDITURES " author="">

EXPENDITURES.

R. A. Bigelow, printing, etc..... $	4.25

Electro Light Engraving Co	15.00

Continental Iron Works, furnace

 etc	1,813.12

W. H. Sturgis, sand	19.50

John T. Woodruff, broken stone	68.oo

William C. Siegert, stationery. . 	 11. .00

Berton & Nichell, setting fire-

 brick lining	99.63

Thomas F. Rowland, Jr., for mas-

 ons wages paid	275.88

Uehling, Steinbart & Co., two

 months' rent of pyrometer	 30.00 $2,336.38



LIABILITIES.



The Continental Iron Works,

Labor, etc., on furnace and at

	tests	766.92 $3, 103.30



Respectfully submitted,



G.	L. HEINS, Treasurer.





Your Committee decided that it would be best to make the tests according to the following program

1st That a series of tests be made on steel and on cast-iron columns, without any fire protection whatever.

























































These tests then to be taken as a basis of comparison with those that were to follow.

2nd. That a series of tests be made with similar steel and cast-iron columns, protected with different materials and in different manner.

3rd. That a series of tests be made on unprotected beams and girders.

4th. That a series of tests be made on protected beams and girders.

It has also been proposed that each series be divided for test both with and without water.

Your Committee has communicated with many manufacturers of fireproofing materials and has been informed that these manufacturers will submit their materials for purposes of tests.

Results.



The result of this series of tests is shown in the accompanying diagram (Fig. I), where the solid line represents the temperature and the clotted line the load on the column.

Test No. was made on a steel column, when the temperature was raised rapidly.

Test No. 3 was made on a cast iron column under similar conditions. Both columns began to fail as soon as they showed " red."

Test No. 2 was made on a steel column, when the



















































temperature was raised more slowly than in the other tests just described.

Test No. 4 was made on a cast-iron column, under similar conditions. Both these Columns failed when



















































they began to show '' red, although the time was longer than in tests Nos. and 3.

Test No. 5 was made on a cast iron column, a jet of water being thrown upon it through a 34-inch nozzle. The column was first heated to 675 and then quenched with water without injury. The heat was then slowly raised again to 775 and the column again quenched

