<doctype type="text">135  THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 

are based upon the use of material and workmanship of the best of their respective kinds.

Section 161 All formulae herein given for determining the load permitted upon girders of any kind are for girders supported at both ends and uniformly' loaded over their entire length. The formulae for column loads are for columns concentrically loaded.

Section 162. The calculations for the allowances which must be made for other methods of loading shall he based upon the above formulae and constants and the rules of the best engineering

 

<article title=" TORONTO WATER-WORKS SYSTEM " author="">

TORONTO WATER-WORKS SYSTEM.

THERE is now in course of construction in connection with the proposed improvements to the Toronto waterworks system a six-foot steel conduit from the island out to the intake pipe in Lake Ontario, to replace the wooden conduit now in use. This work is a portion of the plan advocated by Mr. E. K. Keating, city engineer, and approved of by Mr. James Mansergh, the English engineer engaged to report on the most feasible scheme for improving the water supply. The contract was let in June last to the Collin's Bay Rafting Company for the pipelaying and to the John Perkins Company, of Toronto, for the tanks, gates and connections.

The shore crib on the island will be extended to the south to allow for a new connection with the steel main. When the steel pipe is ready the intake pipe will be swung into line with it by means of a flexible joint, and a telescopic joint used to connect the two. The crib is a steel tank, feet square and 16 feet deep, made of steel plates five-eights inches thick. The connecting tank is 8 feet wide, 9 feet long and 15 feet deep. Diagonal sliding wooden gates are used to cut off either conduit as desired.

The steel used in the tanks has an ultimate strength of from 56,000 to 66,ooo pounds per square inch, an elongation of 20 per cent in 8 inches, and reduces 35 per cent. in sectional area at breaking point, in specimens of one square inch or over, lengthwise or crosswise of plates. The trenches will be filled in solidly up to the level of the bottom of the tanks, and from this level up concrete walls 12 inches thick will be built around the tanks. The conduit is laid in lengths of about 45 feet, made of eight or nine rings of about 5 ft. each in length. The rings are cylindrical, each alternate ring being enough larger in diameter to slide over and be rivetted to the smaller sections. Most of the pipe is one-half inch in diameter, 500 feet being five-eighths of an inch. For jointing the lengths together 40 1/4-inch bolts are used. The steel for the conduit has an ultimate strength of 55,ooo pounds per square inch, and is given two coats of the usual black coating before being laid in the trench. By means of steam pumps and a pair of movable heads a pressure of 35 pounds to the square inch is maintained on the inside of the pipe, and any leaks found are re-called before laying. The conduit line is 2,350 feet in length, 68o feet being on the island and 1,670 feet in the lake. Every 45 feet length is supported on two caps about feet from the ends. A pair of stay piles is driven at the end of each length to hold the pipe in line.

Three oval manholes 2 X 3 feet in section will be placed along the conduit ; a stop-gate tank will also be placed on the line of the pipe just inside the shore line.

<article title=" MODERN ARCHITECTURE " author="">

MODERN ARCHITECTURE.

Mr. Sububs- ----(who has ordered drawings for a new cottage) Ah, what is that room adjoining the parlor ?

Architect——That's for your bicycles.

Mr. Sububs—And that room adjoining the kitchen?

Architect—That's for the cook's bicycle.

TO AVOID	FIRES FROM ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES.

The National Board of Fire Underwriters of the United States has promulgated a series of rules referring to electrical appliances for light and power. It publishes the following cautions for the information of the public.

1.	Have your wiring done by responsible parties and make contract subject to the underwriter's rules. Cheap work and dangerous work usually go hand in h a n d

2.	Switch bases and cut-off blocks should be non combustible (porcelain or glass).

3.	Incandescent lamps get hot ; therefore all inflammable material should be kept away from them. Many fires have been caused by inflammable goods being placed in contact with incandescent lamp globes and sockets.

4.	The use of flexible cord should be restricted to straight pendant drops, and should not be used in show windows.

5.	Wires should be supported on glass or porcelain, and never on wooden cleats ; or else they should run in approved conduits.

6.	Wires should not approach each oilier nearer than eight inches in arc, and two and one—half inches incandescent lighting.

7.	Wires should not come into contact with metal pipes.

8.	Metal staples to fasten wires should not be used.

9.	Wires should not come into contact with other substances than their designed insulating supports.

10 All joints and splices should be thoroughly soldered and carefully wrapped with tape.

11.	Wires should be always protected with tubes of glass or porcelain where passing through wall, partitions, timbers, etc. Soft rubber tubes are especially' dangerous.

12. All combination fixtures, such as gas fixtures with electric lamps and wires attached, should have approved insulating joints. The use of soft rubber or any material in such joints that will shrink or crack by variation of temperature is dangerous.

13. Electric gas lighting and electric lights on the same fixture always increase the hazard of fire, arid should be avoided.

14. An electric arc light gives off sparks and embers. All are lamps in vicinity of inflammable material should have wire nets surrounding the globe, and such spark-arresters reaching from globe to body of lam p as will prevent the escape of sparks, melted copper, and particals of carbon.

15 Arc light wires should never be concealed.

16. Current from street railway wires should never be used for lighting or power in any building, as it is extremely dangerous.

17. When possible, the current should be shut off by a switch where the wires enter the building, when the light and power are not in use.

18. Remember that "resistance boxes," "regulators," " rheostats," "reducers," and all such things, are sources of heat and should be treated like stoves. Any' resistance introduced in an electric circuit, transforms electric energy into heat. Electric heaters are constructed on this principle. Do not use wooden cases made for these stoves nor mount them on wood work.

