<doctype type="text">	THE  CANADIAN ARCHITECT	133



being refitted for renting purposes. On BUILDER account a fair trade has been done in wood furnaces, this being a branch of the trade which promises to further develop as the advantages of furnaces become more generally known.

The sales of radiators, notwithstanding the general depression, have exceeded those of last year, and the manufacturers point to this fact as indicative of improved conditions. Ontario trade has been up to the average; Manitoba and British Columbia has shown a slight falling off. In the province of Quebec, outside the cities of Quebec and Montreal, the trade in heating apparatus has been fair, being confined largely to wood furnaces. An improved demand for furnaces is reported from the maritime provinces, where coal is largely used for fuel.

Several of the manufacturers have used iron from the Hamilton Smelting Works, and report it to be of fair quality. Complaint is heard that those who contemplate putting in heating apparatus refrain from placing their orders until the season is well advanced, with the result that manufacturers cannot give the work the attention it would receive were the orders placed at an earlier date. The interests of both the owner of the building and the manufacturer would be served by giving this matter some attention.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

DESIGN FOR HOUSE AT ELORA, ONT.—DICK & WICKSON,



ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.



ILLUSTRATIONS OF RESULTS OF TESTS OF STRUCTURAL



METAL WORK.



DESIGN FOR PUBLIC LAVATORY, TORONTO.—STRICKLAND &



SYMONS, ARCHITECTS.



This lavatory is now being erected for the corporation of the city of Toronto, at the intersection of Adelaide and Toronto street. As the drawings show, the lavatory is entirely below the street level and will contain four urinals, three closets and wash basin. It is the intention to have the lavatory in charge of a man, and to charge the fee of one cent for the use of the basin, towels and soap—-the other accommodation being free. The building will be entirely of stone and brick,

the walls and ceiling of room and staircase being faced with white glazed brick ; the floors, partitions, etc., of white marble; the staircase of iron, the only wood in the entire work being the doors. Ventilation will be by means of an electric exhaust fan, and lighting by incandescent lamps. The heating will also be by electricity. The cost will he about $3,000.



PERSONAL.

Mr. Richard P. Sharpe, formerly lion. Secretary of the British Columbia Institute of Architects, is about to take up his residence in England.

A portrait by Fraser of the late Norman B. Dick, architect, has been presented to the Royal Canadian Yacht Club, Toronto, by a few of the members who were among his most intimate friends.

Several Halifax architects, including Mr. J. C. Dumaresq and Mr. Busch, jr., visited Toronto during the Industrial Exhibition. They report that a fair amount of building is being done in the maritime provinces this season.

Mr. Henry Langley, architect, Toronto, who was so unfortunate as to break his leg by falling into an opening in the floor of a new building in Rosedale in the early part of the year, is again able to attend to his professional duties.

Prof. John Galbraith, principal of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, was appointed vice-president of the Mechanical and Engineering Section of the Association for the Advancement of Science at the recent convention in Buffalo.

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCH I TECT AND BUILDER.)



MONUMENT NATIONAL LECTURES.

<article title=" MONUMENT NATIONAL LECTURES " author="">

A FIRST attempt was made last year by the Society National to give free public lectures. The results have been so favorable that this year the Society has resolved to continue and complete the courses. The Quebec Government have recognized the importance of these lectures by voting an annual grant of $2,500 for their support. The free public lectures on the Arts and Sciences will be resumed this year in the Monument National, St. Lawrence Main street. The lectures will be as follows : I "Applied Mechanics," by M. Alex. Bonniu, Ecole Centrale of Paris, Officer of Academy; 2. "Mines and Metallurgy," by F. V. Roy, Ecole Centrale of Paris 3. "Agriculture and Colonization," by M. J. X. Perreault 4. "Architecture and Building," by M. Jos. Venne, architect 5. '' Political Economy," by the Hon. Jos. Royal 6. "Universal History," by M. L. 0. David; 7. "Commerce" by M. Stamilas Cote, editor of the Moniteur du Commerce. The dates of the lectures have not yet been definitely arranged. The classes as mentioned are entirely free of charge.

MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION.

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION " author="">

At a recent meeting of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, a letter was received from the Toronto Foundry Co., thanking the Association for the manner in which they entertained the company's representatives while attending the convention of the National Association of Master Plumbers for the Dominion of Canada, recently held in this city, expressing their best wishes for the success of the organization, and enclosing the Sum of $25 to assist in defraying the expenses incurred by the Association in connection with the convention.



DEPARTMENT OF ARCIIITECTURE·—McGill University.



The recently endowed Chair of Architecture at McGill University, Montreal, has been filled by the appointment as Professor of Mr. S. H. Capper, M. A., A. R. I. B. A., late of Edinburgh University. Mr. Capper graduated as Master of Arts from the latter university in 1880, and was awarded the Pitt-Club Scholarship in Classics. He subsequently resided for five years in Spain, and studied closely the architecture of that country. He entered the Ecole des Beaux Arts in 1884, and studied architecture with M.

J.	L. Pascal, member of the French Institute of Architects. Having continued his studies in Fiance and Italy until 1887, he began the practice of his profession in Edinburgh in which city he designed and supervised the erection of such important buildings as Whitewich Orphanage, Glasgow University Hall Buildings, Edinburgh ; new laboratories for the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh model workmen's dwellings, Blainhoyle, Perthsh ire, etc. He was appointed extension lecturer and examiner in Archaeology and Art for the M. A. degree in the University of Edinburgh. Mr. Capper has presented to the authorities of McGill University testimonials of the highest character as to his qualifications as instructor in architecture, and there is consequently every reason to hope that under his direction the new department of architecture will make satisfactory development.



For several weeks past the appearance of the streets of Montreal has been marred and traffic to some extent impeded by excavations for subterraneous wires. This work could have been done before the construction of the new pavements. Curiously enough, on the eve of the completion of the work, the City Council has decided to protest against the breaking up of the streets. An hydraulic company also proposes to make similar excavations. The City Council had the means several weeks ago of stopping the works but they have not done so. As it is, several lawsuits are in prospect.





The death occurred at Amherst, N. S., on the 8th inst., of Mr.

H.	G. C. Ketchum, C. E. Deceased was born at Fredericton, N. B., 57 years ago, and was educated at Kings University. His first work was as a draughtsman on the old European North American Railway between St. John and Shediac, now part of the I. C. R. Subsequently he was connected with the construction of San Paulo incline in Brazil, a railroad running from the coast to the table lands in the interior. He was engineer of the International Contract Company, and afterwards built that portion of the I. C. R. between Painsec and Missiquash river. Latterly he has been engaged on the Chignecto Ship railway, and in this connection has become known as one of the best engineers of Canada.

