<doctype type="text">

THE LATE JOHN RITCHIE. <article title=" THE LATE JOHN RITCHIE " author="">

THE death of Mr. John Ritchie, which took place at his residence in Toronto on Sunday, the 13th inst., removed one of the oldest citizens and a prominent business man of that city. For a month past he had been under medical attendance, his death finally resulting from heart failure.

The late Mr. Ritchie was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, in the year 1820, and was therefore 76 years of age. He resided with his parents until 12 years of age, after which he was obliged to earn his own livelihood. At the age of i8 years he was apprenticed to the plumbing trade with the firm of John Blackee & Son, Aberdeen, and served an apprenticeship of seven years, remaining with the firm for three years longer. He was then employed in another shop until September, 1854, when he resolved upon coming to

America. Arriving at New York he secured work with Philbin & Quinn, receiving $ 10 per week until the following March, when, being considered one of the best workmen in the city, his wages were advanced, and he remained with the firm until 1857 when he decided to visit Toronto. On reaching this city he established a business on his own account on King street East, and by careful attention and first-class workmanship, he succeeded in building up a large trade.

The first contract executed by deceased was given him by one of the best known architects of the city at that time, and included hot and cold water throughout, closets, basins, baths, pantry and kitchen sinks. Although his price was much in advance of that for which other plumbers offered to

do the work, it is said that when the contract was finished the owner of the building was perfectly satisfied, and from this time forward a considerable transformation took place in the plumbing of Toronto buildings.

A short time afterwards he added to his business the manufacture of brass work and general plumbers' and steamfitters' supplies, and admitted to partnership his eldest son, the business being carried on under the firm name of John Ritchie & Sorb. In 1876, at the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia, they were awarded first prizes on cocks, valves and lubricators ; also in Australia the same year, together with first prizes at Toronto, Hamilton and other places. A few years later the firm dissolved partnership, the late Mr. Ritchie continuing until the year 1895, when he converted his business into a stock company known as The John Ritchie Plumbing & Heating Co., Ltd., of which he was at the head. He was recognized as the father of the plumbing trade in Toronto, and always took an active interest in the advancement of the trade with which he was identified.

Deceased was at one time a prominent figure in municipal affairs, having represented St. Thomas ward as alderman for four consecutive years. He was an active member and past master of St. John's Lodge No. 75, A. F. and A. M., and a past principal of Toronto Arch Chapter, St. Andrew's and St. John's. Among his intimate friends Mr. Ritchie was familiarly known as "Heather Jock," on account of the vigorous and dramatic manner in which he always rendered that song at Hallowe'en dinners of the Caledonian Society, of which he was a member.

In religion he was a Presbyterian, having been continuously a member of Knox church since his arrival in Toronto. He leaves a widow and four sons.



USEFUL HINTS.

SOLDERING GLASS. Recent investigations by Margot have established the fad that an alloy, composed of 95 parts of tin and five of zinc, melts at 200 degrees centigrade, becomes firmly adherent to glass, and is unalterable and exhibits an attractive metallic lustre, says the Engineering an. Mining Journal. An alloy, consisting of 90 parts tir and 10 of aluminum, melts at 390 centigrade, becomes strongly soldered to glass, and is possessed of a very stable brilliancy. With these two alloys it is possible, it is claimed, to solder glass as easily as it is to solder two pieces of metal, and this operation may be done by soldering the pieces of glass, when heated in a furnace, by rubbing their surface with a rod of the solder, the alloy as it flows being evenly distributed with a tampon of paper or a strip of aluminum, or an ordinary soldering

iron can be used for melting the solder.

A mortar that has the property of setting or getting hard under water is called hydraulic. Portland cement is an hydraulic cement. This property is due to the presence of clay in the lime.

Apropos of the question of hot air furnaces and their proper insulation against fire. and the dangers resulting from loss of life engendered thereby, it has been found from experience and from observation, here and abroad, that the proper fire protection is arrived at only when the hot air flues are lined with tin and encased with hollow tile or hard burned brick, set well away from all woodwork.



The highest building in the world, not counting the Eiffel Tower and the Washington Monument, is the Cologne Cathedral. The height from the pavement to the top of the copula is 511 feet. It is 511 feet long and 231 feet wide. It was begun August 15th in the year 1248, and was pronounced finished August 14, 1880 over six hundred years after the corner stone was laid.

