<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Novel Method of Dredging " author="">

Novel Method of Dredging.

alive to the absurdity of this arrangement, and on his recommendation a by-1aw was submitted to the ratepayers recently to authorize the construction of a 24-inch main on Front street, which by-law the citizens in their wisdom voted down. The attitude of the Underwriters Association will have a damaging effect upon the rental value of high buildings, and prove to be a strong discouragement to the erection of such buildings in the future. The latter effect is not to be deplored, at least by those who desire to see an improvement in the character of our street architecture. Present owners of high buildings, however, who find themselves called on to pay one thousand to fifteen hundred dollars per year in additional insurance, on account of a fifth or sixth story, have good reason to complain at their lot.



THE Collins Bay Rafting Co., who were recently awarded the contract for dredging a channel in which to lay the

new steel intake pipe at Toronto Island, have gone about the work in a peculiar manner. Instead of excavating with a dredge, the sand is displaced to the required depth by water propelled under high pressure from the rapidly revolving screw of a steam tug: The tug is backed up to the scene of operations, and the screw set in rapid motion. Each operation of this kind bores a channel several yards in length in the sand. By this peculiar method, it is said, the work is being accomplished in as satisfactory a manner as by dredging, while the saving in time is so great that the contractors bid fair to make a handsome profit. It is expected that after the pipe shall have been laid in the channel the natural action of the water will replace the sand as a covering upon it.



THE Students' Department which has been a feature of the Architect AND BUILDER during the present year, would

be more interesting and helpful if the students themselves would contribute to it. If we have not specifically invited such contributions, it was because we supposed the students would take it for granted that their assistance in this direction would be welcomed. There are many subjects affecting their success in the profession, in which students should feel an interest. There is information to be gained by the asking of questions and the exchange of opinions on these subjects. We trust the rising generation of architects will assist in making our " Students' Department" a medium for the dissemination of valuable information on the lines indicated.



As a tangible illustration of the progress which the arts and crafts are making in this country, the Exhibition

held in Toronto under the auspices of the Canadian Furniture Manufacturers' Association, recently, was one of considerable interest. While in point of design and workmanship there was much to be condemned, there was no lack of evidence that in both these directions great advancement has taken place during the last decade. The work of the leading manufacturers is marked by greater simplicity and refinement in design than was formerly the case. Mahogany appears to be the favorite wood at the present time, with oak and birch as its strongest competitors. Only two or three pieces of walnut were to be seen, the growing scarcity of this wood having advanced the price to the point where

Our Students' Department.

Canadian Furniture.

<article title=" Canadian Furniture " author="">New York Municipal Building Competition.

its extensive use is no longer possible. It is to be regretted that except on the opening day when a few visitors were admitted by invitation, admittance to the exhibition was restricted to persons in the trade.

<article title=" New York Municipal Building Competition " author="">

A TERMINATION has been reached in the architectural competition for a municipal building for the city of New York.

Some years ago architects were invited to submit designs for a building to be erected in City Hall Park, the central portion of the city, and the competition was one of the most promising ever arranged. After designs had been submitted objection to the site was taken by interested persons, with the result that an Act was finally passed forbidding the use of the park for the purpose. After a lapse of three years, during which time efforts were made to have the matter amicably settled, the plans were adjudged last January and the prizes announced, but no provision was made for the payment of the awards. Then followed an action in the courts to recover the awards, and on August 21St the Supreme Court gave four judgments for $2,OOO each against the city in favor of the four architects whose designs were considered among the best. Two other awards have already been allowed by the city, one of $7,000 to Mr.

J.	R. Thomas for the first prize, and one of $2,000 to Rankin & Kellogg. It is a matter of regret that this competition, which promised to result in the erection of a satisfactory building. should have had such an unsatisfactory ending.

<article title=" CONDITIONS IN THE HEATING TRADE " author="">

CONDITIONS IN THE HEATING TRADE.

A REPRESENTATIVE of the CANADIAN Architect AND



Builder recently interviewed several of the largest manufacturers of heating apparatus, with the view of ascertaining the conditions at present prevailing in the trade. Some of the results of his enquiry are worthy of record.

During the season of 1895 an average trade was secured both in radiators and furnaces. To some manufacturers the season was more profitable than to others, owing to the fact that from the month of May forward prices of materials in the United States market advanced considerably, quotations being withdrawn several times, and manufacturers who had not secured supplies early in the season were compelled to pay the advanced rates. In pig iron and galvanized iron an advance in prices was made of about 50 per cent.

Upon the opening of the spring season this year, many manufacturers, anticipating a similar advance, placed large orders for supplies, but up to the present time no notable change in quotations has taken place, prices on the contrary ruling very low. United States supply houses are said to be particularly anxious to secure Canadian business, and are actually forcing their stock upon the market.

Although the heating season has only fairly well commenced, present indications point to considerable activity. Up to the present time the manufacturers of apparatus report sales fully equal to those of last year, with much better prospects for future business. There has been an increased demand for small furnaces. This is accounted for by the fact that furnaces are gradually replacing stoves for heating dwellings and small stores. In the city of Toronto, where the number of new buildings erected has been very limited, the trade has been confined largely to stores and dwellings which were

